Taxes are not impeding businesses. State and local taxes are only about two percent of the cost
of doing business. In spite of this low percentage, business climate rankings generally have at
8
their core state tax levels as the main indicator of business climate.
Additionally, the reality is that there is a limited number of tax options. Oregon has referred sales
taxes and split-roll property taxes to the voters with resounding “no” votes. In the late 1990s,
Oregon experimented with deferring capital gains taxes on selective “start ups” to encourage
reinvestment in businesses and to increase job creations. The State’s analysis of the effort
9
concluded that it was a failure and so it was discontinued. Oregon businesses have strongly
and consistently opposed increasing state corporate income tax. While the CAT (a consumption
tax) like all other taxes isn’t perfect, it impacts only five percent of businesses and is
traded-sector friendly by not including out-of-state activities in the definition of commercial
activities.
Oregon’s net positive migration of firms shows that business relocation has little to do
with alleged poor business climate
The obsession with business climate builds upon and reinforces the false perception that
interstate migration of businesses is a decisive factor shaping or measuring state prosperity. It is
false for a variety of reasons. First, most businesses have only a single location, and employ
people in a single state. Moreover, firms typically have compelling geographical, personal, and
business reasons to locate where they do.
For decades, economic researchers have confirmed that it is the formation of new firms, and
their growth and expansion that drives the growth of regional and state economies, not the
migration of businesses from place to place.The challenge facing states is to foster the
conditions where people can easily create, and readily grow their businesses. It makes no
sense to contort public policies such as tax and land use laws to try to attract a firm that is
simply shopping for the biggest subsidies or the lowest taxes.
Certainly, businesses decide to relocate for a variety of reasons but too often anecdotal
examples, not statistics, drive the narrative. The number of business relocations are reliable
indicators and they demonstrate that, while a business relocation can be a significant problem
for a given employer, the number of relocations for Oregon, when matched up against other
states across the country, indicate that Oregon is not an outlier.
The actual data on firms moving from state to state is tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
using addresses on tax records. Their analysis shows that very few firms ever move from one
state to another. And, in contrast to the widely publicized complaints about firms leaving
Oregon, the latest BLS data show that not only does Oregon have a net inflow of business
10
moves, but it ranks 11th among the 50 states in net in-bound migration of businesses.
8
Grading Places: What do Business Climate Rankings Really Tell Us, page 11 and note 11.
9
https://www.ocpp.org/2000/01/21/no-special-treatment/
10
Akbar Sadeghi, Kevin Cooksey, and Anthony Colavito,"Firm migrations in the United States: magnitude
and trends," Monthly Labor Review, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, June 2023,
https://doi.org/10.21916/mlr.2023.11
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 12 of 17
