• University Development Venture Fund, which seeds capital supporting company
formation and early growth.
• The Oregon Metals Initiative, which supports Oregon’s metals sector by
leveraging state dollars and our public research universities to partner with local
metals companies to conduct research into metals, metals manufacturing, and metals
product design.
• State Programs, which consist of line-item appropriations in the Higher Education
Coordinating Commission’s budget for programs that address economic
development, natural resource stewardship, and other issues identified as high
priorities for the state. These State Programs facilitate the integration of the
universities’ multiple missions of instruction, research, and service, and include
programs like the Tallwood Design Center (collaboration between OSU and UO),
the Fermentation Lab (OSU) and Engineering Technical Sustaining Fund
(supporting programs at all seven public universities)
Sector-Based Strategies
OSU is well positioned to support the state’s sector-based strategies by serving as a neutral
convener and analytical partner, as evidenced by the university’s recent efforts leading
multi-institution, public-private coalitions such as FAST (NSF Region Innovation Engine)
and the CorMic EDA Tech Hub, which accelerates microfluidics-based manufacturing and
startups. The university is prepared to help identify priority sectors, align research and
workforce pipelines, and convene industry, state agencies, local governments, and
communities around shared goals.
The university is committed to help align research, workforce development, and industry
needs within priority sectors such as semiconductors, mass timber, food & beverage, AI &
robotics, clean tech, healthcare and other emerging clusters, strengthening coordination
across regions and institutions.
Evaluation of Emerging Industries and Policy Choices
OSU is prepared to deploy its applied research and analytical capacity to support evaluation
of emerging industries and policy decisions. This includes providing evidence-based
analysis of opportunities, risks, and tradeoffs associated with new industries or regulatory
frameworks, such as clean tech, critical minerals mining or other emerging sectors.
Leveraging this expertise can inform strategic investments and reduce implementation risk.
Company Retention Through Predictable Ecosystems and Regulatory Certainty
Company retention is influenced by workforce availability, regulatory clarity, and
ecosystem stability. Regulatory certainty is a critical factor in both attraction and retention.
OSU is prepared to bring faculty expertise in water resources, land use, public policy and
ecosystem development to support the state in designing regulatory frameworks that are
rigorous, predictable, and informed by applied research. Leveraging OSU’s analytical
capacity can support better policy design, faster implementation, and reduced risk for
companies making long-term investment decisions in Oregon.
3
