Frank Bubenik 97062 Both City of Tualatin Public NA Government 101-500 people Tools for growth Many Oregon cities face aging water, sewer, and transportationinfrastructure. Federal funding helps, but local match requirements and Oregon could establish or expand astate infrastructure bank that provides Bank setup and issuing loans legislature free technical assistance from state onimplementing directives See answer about Washington andViriginia Yes Tools for growth NA When cities expand their UGBs, theinfrastructure costs can be prohibitive. The most impactful near-term moveswould likely be technical assistance, Implementation of three suggesteditems. legislature, local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The state could lower the barriers forsmall and rural cities to access NA
permitting timelines are barriers. Rural cities especially struggle withbroadband access, which limits business attraction. zero or low-interest loans and creditassistance for local projects, similar to The state could create a dedicated fundto help cities finance the trunk simplified grant access, and a stateinfrastructure bank — since they Oregon's existing Clean Water andDrinking Water revolving loan funds —
models in states like Washington andVirginia. This would give cities a infrastructure (water mains, sewerinterceptors, arterials) needed to make address both the financing gap and thecapacity gap simultaneously. simplifying applications, reducingmatch requirements, and offering
reliable, flexible financing tool outsidethe annual legislative budget cycle. new growth areas viable, rather thanleaving it entirely to developers or local longer repayment terms for financiallydistressed communities
debt. Consolidating the fragmentedlandscape of state infrastructure grants
(currently spread across ODOT, OHA,DEQ, and others) into a single portal
with unified reporting woulddramatically reduce the administrative
burden on small city staff who often lackdedicated grant writers. The state
could offer financial incentives for smalland mid-size cities to regionalize
services — sharing water systems,wastewater treatment, or broadband
networks — which reduces per-unitcosts and improves system resilience.
Some Oregon cities have done thisinformally, but state support could
patrick j carney 97304 Both OGSC, 2 LLC Salem Center Private Business and Mall 1 - 20 people Business climate Specifically- the downtown addiction issue. There is no order just chaos- Repeal ALL covid policy- specifically the If we are still in business it should be Legislature/cities need to repeal ALL I honestly don't get any help from any FLA & TX are business friendly. The Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA accelerate it.Less regulation and taxation for NA
Mall, Macy's, Movie Theatre ProfessionalServices we struggle getting any new tenants due to the downtown lawlessness- it'slike all elected officials are looking around for someone to take the lead. 8 SB passed during covid not allowingdetainment after arrest. This shows all clean and crime free. Less regulatory/tax policy is sorely needed. Covid policy passed in haste. It is poorand doesn't apply. state programs or policies. fact Oregon has lost so many homegrown national businesses should tell business spurs more business activityand more tax revenue. It is very simple.
yrs this has been going on- enough is enough and no city/state cancontinue allowing crime with no consequences. We are in really bad criminals there are no consequencesfor petty crimes that escalate (stabbing you all you need to know. We are overburdened daily with toomany non-sensical codes and laws. My
shape- enough where shutting down is an option. It doesn't have to be thatway, but that is what has been tolerated for too long. rite aid victor hernandez my landscaper)to bigger crimes on public. It is friend who revamped a buildingdowntown had to pull over 300
unpredictable downtown- no businesssurvives through chaos like this. We permits...300. Shocking. Of coursethere has to be oversight, but it is
are at our witts end. overkill at the moment.
Andy Linerud 97504 Organization/Business Express EmploymentProfessionals Private Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Business climate Businesses are downsizing or shifting work to other states. I am all forbenefits to employees but you need to let the market dictate these. You are Let the market work. Stop introducingnew benefits just because you may Keep businesses in our state. Legislature. I see the PTE was just renewed through2028. That type of tax incentive is Employer tax breaks, payroll incentives,etc. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services making things unaffordable for businesses. think its a good idea. OSL, PLO, minwage, etc. If employers are not positive.
attracting qualified applicants orretaining them let them introduce these.
Also remove the CAT tax!
Richard Hall 97214 Organization/Business Baerlic Brewing Company Private Food andBeverage BrewingIndustry 21-100 people Tools for growth The cost of opening a business in Portland. Make it easier for a business to openup quickly rather than spending 1-2 Moving toward helping businesses getthrough the red tape keeping them from Not sure, that is your job. Not sure, that is your job. Not sure, that is your job. Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Joseph Gardner 97008 Both The lobbying firm of Gardner Private Business and Government 1 - 20 people Business climate One issue that we would like to see Prosperity Council recommend is the years before gaining revenue.We would suggest making it a priority opening and creating revenue.Successful implementation would Most of the issues could be resolved by We are pleased that the DMV is From what I understand from talking to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Several of my other clients have also NA
& Gardner ProfessionalServices Relations modernization of the state's fleet plates and vehicle registration systems. Atpresent, Oregon is significantly behind its neighbors in offering an efficient, for the DMV to finish its update of itsindividual vehicle registration system, mean that Oregon had a simple,streamlined process comparable to the DMV, but after several years ofworking on this, it's clear that at the partnering with Vitu as its vendor forelectronic systems - the businesses we businesses, Washington, California,and Idaho have all been more encountered regulatory issues thatshould have reasonable solutions, but
modern registration system. One of our clients operates a large vehiclefleet in the state, and they incur large numbers of unnecessary operational and to expand its planning to alsoinclude a streamlining of its vehicle fleet those in neighboring states, allowinglarge vehicle fleets to renew least there needs to be more pressurefrom the governor and/or legislature to have talked to report very positiveexperiences with Vitu in other states, successful than Oregon in modernizingtheir fleet registration systems. we often find that once regulations havebeen enacted, there is little political
costs. These include having to mail paper documents that could easily bescanned, and having to go through laborious registration processes that registration systems at the same time.The transition to a more modern registrations without having tolaboriously register each individual make these modernization efforts apriority. If a fee or some other funding and in fact find that the states thatdelegate more of their operations to the willpower for resolving these issueseven when they impose unintended
aren't designed to handle large numbers of vehicles at one time. system could be expedited by makingmore use of its vendor Vitu's systems, vehicles and avoid processes that don'tscale efficiently. This success would mechanism is needed, the legislaturewould also likely need to be involved in vendor tend to work most efficiently.Oregon has also, over the years, negative effects for businesses. Forexample, the state's regulation of
as that vendor alright operatesextremely successfully in other states. save both businesses and the DMVsignificant costs in the long run, due to crafting that element. We wouldsuggest heavy stakeholder involvement enacted several positive changes in theright direction - most notably with the private security professionals wascrafted with an overly expansive
We have been told by the DMV thatmodernization of their systems has far less worker hours being needed toindividually process each vehicle. from businesses with large fleets(rental car companies, truckers, etc.) to implementation of the 807 processwhich streamlined some processes for definition, such that entry-levelemployees who merely check receipts
been delayed both due to funding andthe need to prioritize other issues. To ensure the DMV has good awarenessof what problems need to be rental car companies. However, thestate's systems need significant at the exit have to meet the samestandards as fully armed security
resolve these issues, political leadersshould make it clearer that addressed. modernization to get back to beingcompetitive with surrounding states. professionals. Similarly, some of thestate's environmental regulations
modernization of their fleet systems is apriority for the state, and alternative sometimes force businesses toprioritize less environmentally friendly
budgeting solutions such as areasonable fee to cover this technologies because legislators andregulators didn't sufficiently consider
modernization process may be worthconsidering. how regulations would impact differentindustries. These issues would be
much less of a problem if officials andregulators were more willing to pursue
minor fixes to regulations and weremore open to rethinking regulations that
are unnecessarily burdensome onbusinesses.
Matt Ertle 97702 Organization/Business PrideStaff - Staffing andRecruiting serving Central Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate This is pretty simple. Oregon and many local government overhead andspending is too big. The net result at current overhead and spending levels Reduce government overhead andspending. Focus on core services at all Reduce government overhead andspending by 40%, basically back to Legislature and local governments. The Enterprise Zone policies do a goodjob attracting large footprint It's ideology. Oregon openly rewardsideology and not outcomes. Oregon's No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I, along with the business community,are grateful for the work you are NA
Oregon Services are to increase taxes/fees/levies on businesses and the 2 workforce. levels with an emphasis oninfrastructure. 2019-2021 levels. Our population sizeis effectively the same as it was in businesses. Beyond these, there areno specific policies in Oregon that negative business climate reputationwill not change until this is addressed. performing.
2019, but our government spending isalmost 2 times as much. attract businesses here. sales tax. Oregonians will support thisEliminate the income tax and add a
policy change. They will not support atransition where the income tax
remains while the sales tax is added,because Oregonians know that the
legislature will ultimately keep both.Florida is a great example of how to tax
businesses and property owners.Eliminate regulation to build and
upgrade facilities. It takes too long andis too expensive. Georgia and Ohio
have done a great job with acceleratedpermitting.
Kristi Wilson 97124 Both Portland Community College Public NA Education 1000+ people Workforce More state-wide alignment and efficient systems. The biggest barrier arethe resources needed to sustain and implement relevant training and An education subcommittee to ensurerecommendations are feasible. More alignment, including articulationbetween K-12, community college and It will take all of these partners and aclear lead for respective areas. Future Ready Oregon, SemiconductorTalent Sustaining Fund, Workforce Pell, Companies, like Nvida, refer to otherstates such as Idaho that have No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
education opportunities, including lack of staffing and technology. Much ofthe funding to develop and sustain programs come from one-time funding, higher education. Ongoing,sustainable funding. Oregon Promise. agreements across the higher edecosystem, making it easier for
making it very challenging to operate. employers to navigate. South Carolinahas some amazing public/private
partnerships to support workforce.
Liz Hartman 97034 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate That small businesses - or any business - is deep pocketed and should betaxed for community outcomes. Small business = your neighbors. The State is due for a renovation of thetax structure. It is time to review a sales The state would have a tax structuresupports infrastructure (transportation), The legislature needs to stop referringto the voters. Take the lumps, make the I believe in the area of housing,Clackamas County has exceeded Sales tax. If 45 states have found a wayto balance income and property taxes No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
tax, decrease the personal income taxand work through the impacts of education and social services for theneediest. It would be done through changes and know that if you're votedout, you did something life changing Multnomah and possibly Washington inthe responsible use of funding and through a sales tax, Oregon just mightbe able to as well. Piecing together "the
constantly adding taxes. removing the variety of minor taxes thatare set to improve one area. The State and necessary for the state of Oregon. outcomes - but that needs to stay on acontinuous improvement cycle. best of" other states does not makesense. Let's stop being "creative" in our
(and each city) needs an overall goal orstrategy set in two -year increments. Multnomah County and Portland needto acknowledge that it is time to merge. governance and evaluate the taxstructures of functioning states.
This will remove redundancies andongoing conflicts to have one
government serving the population.Likewise, it's time to diminish the scope
of Metro. What started as a way toencourage governments to work
together has become a very messy andless effective way to the tri-county area
to work together. Communications havechanged, the way governments work
have changed and it's time to end the tri-county government model.
Anna Osborn Ponzetti 97031 Organization/Business The Next Door, Inc. Non-profit Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Tools for growth The biggest barrier in this area is access to culturally and linguisticallyappropriate business development services. Also, access to capital, Funding non profits like The Next Door,Inc. to offer and expand services. Retention of Latino-owned andimmigrant owned businesses in Legislature - offering funds for culturallyrelevant business development The Business Oregon Economic EquityInvestment Program. the Individual NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The best solution to these issues isgetting funds into the hands of NA
Services especially for ITIN holders, and available real estate. Oregon. structures that reduce barriers. TheBusiness Oregon Economic Equity Development Account program. community-based organizations whoare trusted among communities who
Investment Program is a great exampleof a way that state funds can support have been historically left out ofdecision making processes related to
historically marginalized businesses inthe ways they truly need to succeed. business development. Secondly,getting money into the hands of these
businesses themselves, to help themnavigate a challenging and often unjust
set of systems, is a way to reducebarriers to success. When small
businesses in Oregon thrive, jobs arecreated and retained, and economic
development across the state improves.
Erica C Mitchell 97031 Organization/Business Hood River Distillers, Inc Private Food andBeverage NA 21-100 people Business climate The Circular Action Alliance tax on material used in production. We received2, $125K+ invoices with very little description on what they are for. This will This is an unfair tax on OregonBusiness in an already challenging Repeal of the tax on glass. Glass ishighly recyclable and makes up 75% of Manufacturers need to put pressure onlegislature to repeal the tax/ Oregon is already a top recycler in thecountry. They should continue the NA Yes Business climate NA Oregon is a liquor control state, andhas a price floor on distilled spirits. The We would encourage the OLCC/State ofOR to review the price floor on spirits A price floor that increases with CPI. The OLCC could implement this. The individuals at the OLCC are veryhelpful and the policies they have Idaho also has price floors and reviewsthem periodically for relevancy. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Hood%20River%20Distillers%20Inc%20CINV-2026-4339%202026-02-17.pdf
raise our cost of goods sold by over 3%. environment. This law should berepealed and a better, more fair system this tax. I don't think consumers wouldlike us switching to plastic, but this bill programs in place, and do not need thistax to make it happen. price floor is low and barely covers ourcost. We would like to see the price and increase it by $0.5 or more. created are essential to running ourbusiness.
should be implemented. will force us to. floor increase to cover the years ofinflation that has increased our costs.
ryan p deckert 97225 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon has been a national outlier imposing multiple new taxes andregulations on business and individuals these past 7 years - creating the Income taxes need to be competitivewith other states/regions. Enforce laws In migration. Oregon lived on attractingyoung creative professionals to grow The governor must lead a simplecampaign similar to the early 90's - Higher education and CommunityCollege investment. Colorado and Utah are somewhatsimilar western states - we should No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon is famous for task forces,workgroups, councils - we are not well NA
doom loop unique to PDX and Oregon. We were fortunate to be the lowercost west coast city/state and we lost the plot. on tent camping. Make land availablefor housing. our economy - our policies have driventhem to look elsewhere. Oregon Comeback with 3 fixes: incometax competitiveness, land use reform adopt (wholesale) their tax, education,land use, permitting and economic known for bold action to grow oureconomy and make tough political
and adopt Utah permitting system. development policies - we would seeimmediate results. decisions.
Tabitha Eck 97413 Organization/Business McKenzie Community LandTrust Non-profit Business andProfessional CommunityLand Trust 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Land Use Policy and our public planning offices / processes. Their impacton rural, fire-recovery is HUGE slowing community re-building to less than Accomidations for urgency (diasterrecovery); openness to creative and We are on a path to build enoughliveable, family housing in rural Oregon Collaboration between public officialswho make and interpret the law and NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services 50% rebuilt 5 years after the 2020 fires. Policies and officials are verydistant from the actual work and often following strict policies designed to alternative solution; receiptive to outsideexpert and develper feedback to better to sustain our small towns andunincorporated communities. private / non-profit developers doing thework who understand costs and
mitagate legal risk, not solve for the problem. Building housing in Oregon,Lane County in particular, is a very costly and convoluted process. In rural the processes; commitment tosolutions; retaining professionals and feasibility while including the voices ofthe community.
Oregon, we have little buildable land (small lots, infrastructure, etc . . . )under currect land use codes and struggle to achieve an efficiency of scale mitagate turnover.septic area, we'd like to see cluster Specifically, in the
(building 6+ units at a time). systems approved. Currently, we arebuilding affordable homes in the
McKenzie Valley and each home isrequired to have their own system even
though we will remain the legallandowners once the homes sell. A
cluster system would be significant costsavings for a multi-home development
and lower the end product price andincrease affordability.
Lourdes Herencia Carrasco 97116 Organization/Business Adelante Mujeres Non-profit Business andProfessional Education,coaching 101-500 people Tools for growth 1. Limited access to capital, land, and investment for small businessesand nonprofits and for specific populations, such as rural or underserved 1. Simplified use of language (Englishand other languages) 2. Simplified There is a simple sustainable circulareconomy that will support the To advance prosperity, we need toactivate Community Empowerment and The State has exhibited openness toimmigrant communities through its Coalitions that are transparent abouttheir advances and promote citizen No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Simplifying communication is key.Translating technical documents is not NA
Services andassistance groups. 2. Limited food access, including cuts to SNAP and othersubsidized programs impacting economic stability especially in rural process to access information andresources. 3. Support with creating development and satisfy thenecessities of small businesses and Strategic Partnerships with localgovernments, small businesses and sanctuary policies and inclusivelegislation. surveillance for accountable results, aswell as a space for them to have a voice enough. The language and digital gapare concerning factors in a world where
communities. 3. Digital divides affecting access to basic services andtransactions, education, and business development. local sustainable economies and foodsystems. their centers of commerce. Create lessdependence to government support, corporations, educational partners, aswell as community-based as well as be part of the solution. most things are rapidly evolving to beonline-driven.
and create a reciprocate local symbioticsystem. organizations. A coalition and aroadmap must be agreed upon in order
to make all the pieces fall into shape.
Greg Manning 97219 Organization/Business Pioneer Project Partners,LLC, a real estate Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon is no longer generating sufficient job/income growth to support thecost of developing most new housing. Limited growth in housing supply While incremental policy steps havebeen taken at state and local levels to Gradual employment recovery in thePortland metro area and statewide; State, regional and local governmentsall need to be involved. But the Governor Incremental steps to provide for limitedgrowth boundary expansions for Many other states use these samestrategies (tax incentives, employer No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
development financialconsultant Services hurts Oregon affordability, a major concern. While capital for newdevelopment is flowing much more freely to competing states, the Portland spur housing (new, limited growthboundary expansion legislation, fee major new employer(s) recruited;measurable increase in housing and Legislature set the agenda andtone. Again, the Legislature's specific types of housing are helpful,though can be overly prescriptive. Tax recruitment, availability of developmentland, infrastructure provision, fee
metro area has been called out in national reports(PricewaterhouseCoopers/ULI) as one the weakest real estate investment waivers/tax exemptions for newapartments), the core problem of job permitting and housing affordability vs.incomes; better rankings in national unwillingness to address advancedmanufacturing expansion needs in the incentives of all kinds, from housingdevelopment incentives to employer waivers) much more aggressively, tobetter encourage investment and
markets in the US. This development slowdown has changed from acyclical to a structural problem in our state's economy. and income losses remains. Withoutretaining/recruiting more employers investment outlooks (which guide manycapital decisions). Portland metro area (most recently viathe JOBS Act) suggests that state-level incentives, are also supportive. But tospur housing development, support their economies.
statewide, and particularly in thePortland area, the feasibility of large- action is top priority. This decade, anoverhaul of the state's growth regional/statewide employmentrecovery is key, as are more aggressive
scale housing development isdiminished, whatever the incentives. boundary/growth management systemneeds to be undertaken, better incentives like SDC waivers that reduceupfront project costs and provide the
Employer recruitment strategies,related tax incentives, provision of balancing economic/affordabilityproblems with preservation needs. best enhancements fordevelopers/investors. Public provision
sufficient land for employment growth,and utilities/infrastructure to support Governor Tom McCall would not havesupported growth management of infrastructure funding, as partiallyaddressed by the Legislature in recent
more jobs, all become central tosupporting our housing market as well. legislation that ultimately would leavehis state one of the least affordable and years, similarly is a great help bypartially defraying a developer's offsite
The lack of legislative progress on theOregon JOBS Act this session is most economically fragile. costs.
emblematic of the economic stalemateOregonians find themselves in.
Steve Koper 97068 Organization/Business City of West Linn Public NA government 101-500 people Tools for growth lack of infrastructure support, particularly for housing goals statewide infrastructure fund housing production due to availability ofinfrastructure funding legislature/local government statewide coordination on housingproduction sales tax/revenue sharing at state level Yes Business climate NA tax policy sales tax combined with reduction inproperty tax combined with repeal of businesses that want to move tooregon due to favorable business legislature/statewide governmentsupport; sharing how existing tax having statewide/regional/localeconomic coordination states with a sales tax and a lowerincome tax and lower property taxes No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
measures 5 and 50 climate system only works if growth happens;other tax systems needed to support making it easier for people to stay instate and want to start a business/have
Sarah Lechner 97701 Both Coraggio Group Private Business and NA 1 - 20 people Workforce Community colleges are critical to address regionally-specific workforce Invest heavily in our community Increases in community college legislature, employers, education Unsure Unlocking Opportunities program No NA NA NA NA NA the desire for slow growthNA NA a business in this stateNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We must focus on improving our K-12 NA
ProfessionalServices development needs, but they are struggling financially. They can't take onresponding to emerging local business needs when stretched so thin. colleges across the state. They are ourworkforce development hubs with enrollment, including in certificateprograms. Thriving local partnerships partners through Aspen Institute, a focus on post-completion outcomes: education outcomes if we want to be acompetitive place to attract and keep
established business relationshipsand training facilities. and advisory groups. Trainings thatrespond directly to workforce needs and https://highered.aspeninstitute.org/programs/unlocking-opportunity#program- businesses and talent.
opportunities in the community. classification-tools-from-unlocking-opportunity
Tony Moran 97080 Organization/Business Oregon Induction andThermal Private Metals andMachinery NA 21-100 people Business climate The CPP. Retract it. We would be able to support currentmanufacturing and new business. legislature Bonus Depreciation on CapitalInvestments Washingtons Climate Commitment Actwoud be better than the CPP for Yes Tools for growth NA Do not get rid of the bonus depreciationon capital investments. Keep the bonus depreciation on capitalinvestments. That we are able to use theseprograms to help growth. Legislation NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Doug Puerta 97217 Organization/Business Stack Metallurgical Public Metals and NA 21-100 people Business climate I would like to see the Prosperity Council address state and local policy and Oregon needs to embrace policy and Unemployment will decrease, wage State legislature needs to not just act, Energy Trust of Oregon has been an business.Utah Manufacturers Association No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA There has to be some acknowledgment NA
Machinery legislation which establishes obstacles to business growth. It wouldappear that the biggest barrier is the anti-business sentiment at the state legislation which is beneficial to alltypes of businesses, not just those that growth will improve, Oregon will grow adiverse economy with contributions but change its perceived hostility towardbusiness. SB1507A impacts all outstanding partner. The OregonEnterprise Zone has been beneficial in (including i5 Services) has been a greatresource for our facility in Salt Lake City. that Oregon is competing with otherstates for business investment.
level. are in vogue (eg. semiconductors anddata centers). To do this, Oregon across many different industries. Aswages grow and the state draws in businesses, not just "billionaires andbig corporations". This impacts my past expansions, and should we look toexpand again in Oregon, we would look Oregon should be benchmarking itselfagainst these other "business friendly"
should be looking at all industries,including those legacy industries such new/more labor, tax revenue willincrease. Killing tax incentives (eg. business as well as the localrestaurants I like to frequent. The to once again utilize this perk. states and using this data to help setpolicy. Furthermore, I do truly hope the
as metal working, and engage withthese industries to establish policies bonus depreciation) is short sightedand simply reinforces the negative Prosperity Council has norepresentation from traditional work of the Prosperity Council is morethan political theater.
which support their businesses whilealso state priorities (eg. climate perception of Oregon's businessclimate. manufacturers such as PrecisionCastparts, Selmet, Pacific Cast,
protection). Leatherman Tool, Benchmade Knives,or Orchid Orthopedics. Yet, we do have
representation from a brewery and awine maker?
NA 97325 Both NA Private Business andProfessional Trades 1 - 20 people Business climate Regulation and taxation Reduce regulations, eliminate taxes,especially the CAT. Overall substantial reductions of 75% orbetter Legislature and governor None NA Yes Workforce NA Organ lacks capable individuals toenter into the trades with a basic If oregon wants more jobs, they need tolay off on additional regulations that are If Oregon is gonna continue to burdenbusinesses with additional regulation The legislature and the governor’soffice, BOLI, and the education system None NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA This survey seems silly consideringthis council understands that exorbitant NA
Services foundation of math and problem-solving/critical thinking. Then Oregon cost burdensome to small businessowners. The area is mentioned above, and benefits that we can’t afford, atleast provide them at a scale, by size of amount of over regulation in taxationbusinesses in Oregon are under. We
doubles down on increased minimumwage, paid leave Oregon, and prevent me from bringing on moreemployees, or even being able to employer need to be able to grow business,recruit positions, and maintain jobs.
retirement benefit benefits that impact asmall business owners bottom line mentor and coach employees becauseof the time it takes for just one There are many layers of regulation,whether that’s through taxation, fees, for
prohibiting growth in positions. employee plus the states overregulation and expectation of benefits. service, or inadequate workforce thatneed to be addressed.
employee, a higher wage, and orI wouldn’t have a problem, paying an
providing additional benefit benefits ifthey graduate graduated from high
school school, or even a basic skillsprogram and could enter my workforce
without such direct and continualoversight. In the last 10 years, the
quality of candidate has drasticallydeclined. Requiring more attention by
journeyman in all trade, sectors in orderto maintain safety and quality work
product.
Mark Childs 97223 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes are too high Reduce taxes Not being the highest taxed City/Countyin the US Governments at the City, County, Metroand State levels Having trouble thinking of one Cut taxes No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
NA 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Not enough emphasis on Oregon's unique strengths. Given the current legal and field-building environment around employee More growth in successful, community-engaged small business across the Busin,ess development and marketingteams across the state need materials Based on national trends in the last fewmonths, Oregon has a current, urgent Oregon is a leader now, let's build onthat head start. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ownership trusts, Oregon mustimmediately leverage the fact that OR is state, in rural and urban areas, and anincrease in community wealth and tax and support to develop a compellingmessage and disseminate. State and opportunity to market stewardownership as a unique benefit for
the only state with legalized stewardownership trusts. This is an immediate base from those local legislation will make transitionsand new business incorporation faster, Oregon businesses.
opportunity to recruit high qualitybusinesses with good-paying jobs to especially if there is loan fundingavailable.
OR. To build on this, OR should alsoadopt multiple best practices and new
laws that support trusts andcooperatives, especially from the
Colorado. Policy support andinvestment in transitions to trusts would
speed up the conversion process andshould be a legislative priority as well.
Kris Bennett 97838 Both Bennett BotanicalGardens?KRISanthemums Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Small business/business support by the State of Oregon Face the issues of businesses leavingOregon growth, less taxing and restrictions legislature Local county government is supportive Look to where business is moving to,those states No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Rural Oregon issues are being decidedby those who are not living and running NA
Alice Dale 97201 Myself NA NA ServicesNA NA NA Workforce Lack of resources/funding for HEd and on-the-job training programs More funding for education Higher Ed More graduates from HEd and CC; Legislature, all levels of education (CC, There are a number of labor- WA, CA, MA, NY, IL - all these states Yes Business climate NA Lengthy and complicated regulations Improved regulatory processes, fewer A coherent business plan and new Cities, counties, legislature, employers State economic development programs WA and CA seem to do a good job in Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA businesses in rural Oregon.NA NA
and expansion of vocational and on-the-job training to meet labor shortages student debt is lower; expandedapprenticeship programs are in place HEd), employers and training partners management partnerships to train theworkforce but they need to be have strong healthcare trainingprograms sponsored by SEIU, AFT and often hold up development; taxincentives often throw money at business "give-aways" that take neededtax dollars away from local businesses coming into Oregon thatadd to our quality of life - good jobs, that are linked to community well-beingand job growth certain economic development areasthat OR does not
and to raise wages. in key areas of the economy; greaterlinkage between education and job expanded. BOLI and CC need morefunding for vocational and various state nurse unions have goodjob training programs business recruitment without resultsthat benefit Oregonians; too much communities (often property taxes) andfail to provide long-term high paying jobs clean businesses, responsiblestewardship; a fairer/more progressive
needs apprenticeship programs attention is focused on lowering taxesfor business and high income earners. tax policies in our state
OR has very low corporate incometaxes and tax fairness should be our
focus not helping the most affluentOregonians
Dee Anne Everson 97504-7114 Both United Way of JacksonCounty Non-profit NA humanservices 1 - 20 people Workforce There are several licensing issues in the substance use disorder andbehavioral health workplace. Cleaner licensing requirements acrossthe spectrum. More drug counselors and therapists. legislature, training programs, collegesand universities NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Mr. Chao 97030 Both Asian Business Coalition(ABC) Non-profit NA Multistreamfinancial 101-500 people Business climate The biggest barrier is by far the democratic party and their uncheckedpower in the state, causing excess regulation and taxation. All Parties come to the middle. Electpeople who have actually run Republican leadership in the state andnation. Eliminate foolish virtue The people. Almost none. Let us set OUR OWNpolicies pertaining to workplaces. Free Florida, Texas. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You are all like minded. Seek outperspectives that aren't far left. You do NA
and taxplanning businesses, reduce regulation andfrankly- interference. Lower taxes now signaling and improve schools withpolicy and accountability- not money. market. not see your own bias. This is a jokeand will only result in more of the same.
and stop demonizing the well off. Unionmoney out of elections. Unions out of elections.
Erubiel Valladares 97338 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce After the new ice policy enforcement. Lots of people that had the labor forcehas left. As a farmer now I have to rethink how to hire workers. Can small Instead of investing in deportations wecan use the money to grow vegetables If climate change doesn’t destroy ourenvironment. I hope we can produce NRCS is on skeleton bones. Trying toplease the big farmers. FSA takes Good question. Where are those stateprograms for small rural farmers in polk NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You all should know.the migrants had with the government The little trust NA
farmers like me ge actual help? Are we pushed to use robots. This type ofTechnology is not cheap and we don’t know the damage it will do the the and make it affordable. Unsustainablebut at least we will have non-ultra nutritious crops that are affordable foreveryone specifically those with lower weeks to get a response back causeeither they don’t have staff or they county. is at a -5 today. How state governmentwill build this relationship up again is a
soil.expensive my produce will have to be to make it. As much as I would like to pay competitive wages is unrealistic how processed food that is killing ourpopulation. income. Is like being poor pushes youto eat the worst foods created by the choose and pick who they help better.Could be race related/preferences or big mystery to me.relationship of undocumented labor The intertwined
USA. just simply trying to keep up with thedemand and small farmers don’t the force has pampered everyone bythinking that our produce is cheap to
attention they deserve. make when is not.is a class war among us. And right now We all know there
Latinos are the target.up to us! I wish I didn’t think this way. Who is next is
But I can’t pay a white farmer a $25dollar/hr wage when people would not
buy the produce just by how expensive itis to pay someone with all of their
respective: workers comp, insurance,retirement plan and job retention perks.
and are usually overlooked case weRural communities he hit the hardest
don’t have massive numbers of peoplelike the metropolitans. But we do a lot of
the work to provide the amenities tothose from urban areas that might use
the rural to escape to nature.those that have the privilege to be on And for
the soil and water conservation districtis a small gesture of civic engagement
and where I have discovered how racialthose little districts can get. I am a
veteran and I don’t care aboutprivileges. That’s why I do what I do.
Audra Marazzani 97302 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Lack of support Travel & tourism dollars going back to 1000’s more going into promoting local All Oregon has a lot of DMO’s that have the None, just know it is possible. When No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Expecting people of color to engage incivics today is a scary, cause being aInvest in local first NA
tourism businesses and attractions information to help Oregon he the #1state to visit tourism dollars are used to promotetourism in all towns.
Tiffany Wilkins 97812 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce 95 percent of the jobs in Oregon are non union, when unions are the onlyaccredited training in Oregon a lot of union. Members haven't even been Help the union crafts have morecertified apprenticeship workers You would have more money staying inthe state with dollars spent on local Partner with the local union s to keepconstruction money spent on people Operating engineers local 701 , NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Contractor's come in from out of state , Ifeel there should be local qualified NA
put to work this year because all of the work is going to less trainedcheaper workers required to do state jobs, and or localworkers required to work on jobs our tax contractors and local workers that work in our state people doing the work for ourcommunity to thrive. Out of state
dollars are going to contractor's should have to use localpeople
Annette Fernald 97124 Both Interstaste All Battery Center Public NA Batteriesand back up 1 - 20 people Business climate CAT Tax....we have very low margin and it is very unfair to base the tax onGross sales.....not much is left at the end of the year to live on. Remove CAT Tax, or base it on marginnot gross sales Be profitable and survive with ourbusiness Tina Kotek - govener none - we are a disabled veteranowned business and dont have Less gas tax, like Idaho...this willimprove our ability to make deliveries No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Nathan Nayman 97239 Myself NA NA NA powerNA NA Business climate State Tax Structure is an impediment for funders to support and fund 1. Create a business court or More investment by funders will keep Governor must lead and all above must opportunity to get bids for contractsthere are none Delaware: 1. A specialized business Yes Workforce NA integrating AI as a educational degree BS in AI and MS in AI as well as the More independent contractors starting Union leadership none NY, Michigan No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Oregon founders commercial docket- A specialized courtwould give companies faster, more founders in the state and begin thecycle of new and growing companies partner and compromise court Delaware’s Court of Chanceryhears corporate cases with expert building trades Union apprenticeshipprograms must face 21 century their business in Oregon
predictable legal outcomes and helpbuild the confidence investors look for. born in Oregon and remaining inOregon judges (not juries), making rulings fastand predictable, which is a huge standards
Oregon could start small with a pilotprogram. 2. Modernize Oregon’s advantage for companies andinvestors. 2. Clear, modern corporate
corporate code - An optional “OregonCorporate Code” could give startups a laws Delaware’s statutes are updatedregularly, written with clarity, and
clear, flexible legal framework alignedwith modern financing practices without compatible with the financing structuresstartups rely on. 3. A frictionless
forcing any business to switch. 3.Improve digital filing and compliance administrative system Fast digitalfilings, consistent processes, and
systems - Speed and ease matter.Streamlined filings alone could shift responsive agencies makeincorporating in Delaware simple and
corporations back to Oregon.targeted, performance-based incentives 4. Use reliable. Together, these pillars givefounders and investors confidence. And
- Oregon doesn’t need broad corporatetax breaks. Instead, the state can offer where confidence exists, investmentfollows.
smart, conditional incentives tied to realeconomic activity like jobs, R&D, or
headquarters presence, with clearsunset clauses. 5. Study the economic
impact first - A thorough fiscal studywould help Oregon understand revenue
opportunities, risks, and long-termbenefits before making major changes.
Scott Larson 97707 Organization/Business Visit Central Oregon Non-profit NA Tourism 1 - 20 people Business climate We have become one of the least business friendly states in the country,and I genuinely worry about the erosion of our tax base as we continue to Wholistic tax reform across the board --what's working, what isn't, what could Private sector growth legislature and above NA sales tax, for one. Higher fees on out ofstate visitors to fund in-state needs. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I genuinely worry about the erosion ofOregon's tax base and the shrinking NA
increase taxes and pass new policies that make the state less friendly forbusinesses. There are many who would love to do business in our be changed, added, or reduced, etc. Fixing the property tax issue. private sector and growing public sectorjobs number. Covid did a number on
beautiful state or stay here as they grow, but the business climate doesn'tsupport that. everyone but most of our problems nowfeel self inflicted. We need to stop
blaming the federal government for ourown issues and figure out how to fix
them at a state level. It feels like we arerunning as fast as we can toward a
state-level recession due to our ownchoices, and I genuinely worry about
Oregon's economy under the currentbusiness climate and policies that are
in place.
