Karyn Barsa 97205 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA The fact that the Council is already focused on three areas is evidence ofthe underlying problem. We need an overall vision for the state first, then Please, please, please create anoverall vision/direction/North Star before It appears that success forpolicymakers looks different from Everyone. All actions should begoverned by the vision for the state, not Sigh... this is completely the wrongquestion! The question should be, It's the Council's job to determine whatmodels and practices should be No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
focus areas decided afterwards. Figure out what we want Oregon to beknown for, then develop the focus areas that will be necessary to tackle to deciding which tactical challenges totake on. success for Oregon. Oregon can stillrank last in many measures and can by entrenched perspectives. "Given the vision outlined for Oregon,and the focus areas determined to enacted to reach thevision/direction/North Star.
get us there. The current approach of just doing more of what we've alwaysdone won't work. repel business talent whilepolicymakers point to little tactical enact that vision, is there a particularprogram that you rely upon?" You can
successes to burnish their careers.Have a vision for Oregon first, then ask then assess the value of the programand determine any required
yourself what success looks like for thatvision. alternatives. Be leaders, please - notblind followers of constituents' groaning.
Mickie Derting 97741 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce In Central Oregon, 81% of 200 employers who took a Bend Chambersurvey in 2022 said that the #1 barrier to attraction and retention is housing. Have business leaders be on theboards of housing/homeless regional We’ve kept people in the workforce,increasing productivity and therefore There have been pilots for regionalcoordinated (e.g. HB 4123), multi- Gap financing and allowinginfrastructure to be an eligible expense. In Silicon Valley, Cisco Systems andother businesses are on the board of a Yes Tools for growth Communications andCommunity Engagement I found this survey via LinkedIn becausea co-worker liked it. Had I not been I would appoint a communications andcommunity engagement committee to You have engaged rural communitymembers and robust economy in rural You do. Staff and members of thisprosperity group. The Universal Health Plan GovernanceBoard has a Communications and Check out Community Assemblieswhere residents are engaged almost No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Destination: Home + Cisco “PracticalGuide” on partnering with the private NA
Workforce housing stability is a business strategy. hubs designing solutions together withlocal government, non-profits, and so revenue, contributing to local economy.In Central Oregon alone, 30% are rent agency groups, start there and addbusiness leaders to those regional pilot (But need to improve MIRL applicationprocess and reduce risks for regional coordination homelessresponse hub and have invested up to scrolling through LinkedIn, I would havemissed it. It’s a day after the deadline. provide this group or staff advise on thatand have people who live and/or work in communities and diverse andrepresentative members thriving community Engagement Committee. similar to jury pools, randomly and thenthey are sorted to ensure sector:https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/abo
on. Acknowledge thathousing/homeless solutions are not burdened and 50% are severely rentburdened. (Please verify. I am going by office groups. Ask business leaders tosurvey their employees and find out sponsoring agency.)permanent line in the budget of Having a $100 million in funds and in-kindservices for supporting housing, rental people in rural communities who mightWhat would it take for you to reach rural areas to represent. because you heard from them and notjust the usual suspects or the loudest representation. ut/csr/reports/destinationhome-practicalguide-ebook.pdf I am also
social issues or charity but aninvestment in attracting and retaining memory.) This means helping peoplewho are living paycheck to paycheck how many are experiencinghomelessness. How are people getting housing/homeless efforts.not just data or data quality but also Requiring assistance, and affordable housing gapfinancing. To-date, they’ve helped not have LinkedIn?improve your reach that ensures a How would you voices. Their voices matter too but it’snot usually representative of a whole pursuing similar model and engagingwith business leaders. I am happy to
our best talent pool. (It’s a savingsreally compared to churn cost of $47k with utility bills or an unexpected carrepair expense. Help with rental though if they are rent burdened? Whatwould help keep them afloa, stability data performance such as costcontainment, if shelter: utilization and 28,000 individuals from becominghomeless or to be stability housed, representative and diversified ruralcommunity members? community. share my experience thus far and to bea sounding board or thought partner.
per person up to 231% of annual salarydepending on role.) assistance. Help with gap funding foraffordable housing for 30% to 120% AMI. housed, and productive in their jobs?Ask businesses to invest in exit rates. keeping their best workforce talent pool.
housing/homeless regionalcoordinated homeless response office
and perhaps, in-kind services assometimes service provider non-profits
are great with best practices and areSME in housing and homelessness but
might not be the best with running acompany or having a sustainable and
Jacy Horn 97205 Both Calsop Private NA NA I don't know Tools for growth time more time endless time diversified funding portfolio. And so on.everyone NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Philip Graham 97232 Both Ear Trumpet Labs Private Metals andMachinery NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Encourage worker ownership Establish state tax policies encouragingsales of businesses to workers, and A state worker ownership institute suchas Colorado or Michigan has Legislature, Business Oregon Business Oregon international tradesupport programs See above - Colorado EmployeeOwnership Office, Michigan Center for Yes Business climate NA I want to voice support as a businessowner for eliminating the QSBS. The Eliminate the QSBS at the state level NA Legislature NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
business Oregon task force providingtechnical assistance Employee Ownership "startup" business community thatrelies on these incentives is not
producing lasting, quality, communityjobs and wealth. They're looking for get
rich quick schemes and rarely stay inthe state anyway. Don't coddle tgem.
Clayton Ketcham 97205 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Funding public transportation to improve the business climate Increasing funding for public transit inthe state Having more frequent buses and trains Everyone TriMet Every other developed country in theworld has good transit. Let’s follow their No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Matt Dittrich 98607 Organization/Business TiE Oregon Non-profit Business and NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Enabling startups to grow into thriving and successful businesses. Rethink QSBS. Fund venture capital! The number of funded startups doubles. Legislature! NA footstepsNA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ProfessionalServices
Chris Bloome 97089 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce With rapidly changing needs within many disciplines and employer needs,especially AI, developing appropriate educational and training programs In regards to Institutes of HigherEducation need to be intensely Educational programs and trainingalign with skill sets, thinking, attitudes, Same answer as question above re:solution or specific. Transitions/Transitiones programs asCommunity College (I don't know if it's a I haven't lived in other states in a longtime. Don't have input right now No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Affordability for education and/or trainingneeds support. If individuals can't afford NA
has a lot of catching up to do. connected with current stakeholdersand/or others not already identifying in etc. that employers need people to beready to use upon hire. state program). it, it won't happen. Over time, the impactof people not being educated/trained
understanding their needs/expectationsand in ways not previously understood won't help them into family wageearning jobs on the long term.
or even discussed
Denny conant 97301 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Spend only on essentials Let private money do extras No camping allowed in towns anywhere Local govt We need less state programs in and ahiring freeze to reduce govt by 5 per cent Take care of roads and enforce the laws No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Aaron Johnson 98683 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Continuity of health care in an at-will environment benefits companieswithout benefits to workers. Separate health care from employment Health care would not change mid yeardue to contract negotiations failure Oregon state legislature, OregonInsurance Division, and federal Oregon's Paid Leave Oregon and theOregon Health Plan provide important Washington state's SEBB/PEBB modeldemonstrates that public employees Yes Business climate NA Oregon's Corporate Activity Tax isassessed on gross receipts, not profit. Exempt companies under a grossrevenue threshold (e.g. $5M) from the "Oregon-based founders choose to stayin Oregon rather than relocating to Oregon Legislature (CAT reform),Oregon Secretary of State (business Oregon's angel investment tax credit(through Business Oregon) is valuable "Delaware's business-friendlyincorporation law remains the national Yes Tools for growth Oregon's economic development toolkitwas designed for physical industry — Create a 'digital industry' track withinBusiness Oregon with dedicated staff Oregon has a measurable pre-seedand seed-stage capital ecosystem Business Oregon (program design andstaffing), Oregon Legislature Oregon's Certified BusinessDevelopment Centers (SBDCs) provide New Mexico's Catalyst Fund is a smallstate doing pre-seed co-investment at Yes NA Natural systems science as economicdevelopment — oceanography, forestry, Establish an Oregon Natural SystemsData Commons — a state-coordinated At least three Oregon-basedcompanies are commercializing Oregon Legislature to fund the datacommons infrastructure and Oregon Sea Grant has quietly built oneof the strongest coastal research-to- Virginia's Commonwealth CyberInitiative shows how a state can build a Oregon is at an inflection point thatmost states would envy and few are NA
between Aetna and Providence whileworking for startups with a global lawmakers. State action: mandate mid-year continuity protections when carrier foundations. OHP in particular servesas a proof-of-concept that state- can have portable, employer-agnosticcoverage administered at scale. For early-stage software and techstartups that are pre-revenue or burning CAT, or provide a credit against CATliability for documented R&D Vancouver WA or Seattle. Measurableincrease in new tech company registration simplification), BusinessOregon (startup-specific programs), and should be expanded — the currentcap is too low to meaningfully move the standard — Oregon could create acomparable lightweight statutory site readiness, land use, permitting formanufacturing and logistics. Software, who understand software businessmodels, venture capital cycles, and outside Portland. Founders in Bend,Eugene, and Corvallis have access to (capitalization of a matching fund),Oregon's university technology transfer genuinely useful technical assistanceand should continue. The Oregon scale — directly applicable to Oregon.Maryland's TEDCO (Technology and climate data infrastructureOregon sits atop one of the most open data infrastructure connectingOSU CEOAS, Hatfield Marine Science products built on Oregon naturalsystems data — carbon market tooling accelerator. Oregon Department ofForestry and Oregon Department of practice pipelines in the country anddeserves sustained federal and state distributed research-to-industry networkacross multiple universities with a positioned to act on. We have world-class research institutions, a highly
workforce and without majority ofworkforce affected within Oregon. networks change, similar to surprisebilling protections. Federal action: administered health coverage can workindependently of employment status. Vermont's single-payer attempts, whileunsuccessful legislatively, generated cash to reach product-market fit, thiscreates a tax liability on activity rather expenditures. Create a startup-specificbusiness classification with reduced registrations. Portland retains andattracts early-stage companies past and Oregon's congressional delegation(federal R&D tax credit advocacy). needle. OTRADI's work connectinguniversity research to commercial framework for early-stage companieswithout requiring Delaware registration. distributed systems, and AI companieshave no physical site requirements and remote-first workforce structures.Establish a state-backed pre-seed the same state-level support as thosein the Pearl District. Oregon retains at offices at OSU, OHSU, and PSU (dealflow pipeline), and private angel Growth Board's work connectingentrepreneurs to capital deserves Development Corporation) is a 25-year-old state-chartered technology scientifically significant natural systemson Earth — the Cascadia subduction Center, the Oregon Department ofForestry, and NOAA's Pacific Marine for small woodland owners, offshorewind site assessment software, Fish and Wildlife to open their datasetsunder commercial-friendly licenses. support. Oregon Department ofForestry's Forest Resources Monitoring single coordinating entity — Oregoncould replicate this model for natural educated technical workforce,extraordinary natural systems, and a
decouple insurance from employmenttax treatment (employer deduction) to These programs should continue andexpand. useful actuarial data on what fulldecoupling would cost. Colorado's than success. Combined with Oregon'slack of a sales tax and high personal regulatory overhead for companiesunder 10 employees and 3 years old. seed stage rather than losing them toBay Area or Seattle ecosystems at Governor's office can lead by conveninga startup-specific working group distinct ventures deserves continued funding.Oregon's relatively streamlined LLC Colorado's OEDIT (Office of EconomicDevelopment) runs sector-specific don't benefit from these tools. Theresult is that Oregon's most capital- matching fund co-investing alongsideOregon-based angels, capped at least one high-profile startup throughSeries B that would previously have networks like Willamette AngelConference and Portland Seed Fund sustained funding. Oregon's relativelyopen public records and data commercialization entity with a trackrecord Oregon could study. Kansas zone, the California Current marineecosystem, and the largest contiguous Environmental Laboratory. Mandate thatstate-funded research produce fisheries stock modeling services.OSU's tech transfer office has a OSU and its tech transfer office toprioritize spinout formation alongside program generates data that underpinsbillions in timber and carbon value — systems science anchored at OSU,PSU, and U of O. Washington's clean cultural identity that attracts exactly thekind of people who build the next
level the playing field for individualcoverage. Insurance carriers should be reinsurance program (OmniSalud)shows a state can stabilize individual income tax, founding teamsincreasingly choose to incorporate and Model after Delaware's permissiveincorporation framework or Wyoming's Series A. from general business climate efforts. formation process is a genuine assetcompared to many states. accelerator programs with measurableoutcomes worth studying. Utah's efficient, highest-wage-per-square-footindustry segment — tech startups — $250K per company, modeled afterprograms in New Mexico and Kentucky relocated to Seattle or the Bay Area.Business Oregon can point to a (co-investment partners). Governor'soffice sets the tone by treating software infrastructure is an underappreciatedasset — open government data City's bi-state innovation district(Crossroads KC) shows that mid-sized temperate rainforest in the contiguousUS. The state generates enormous machine-readable open datasets withcommercial-use licensing. Create a dedicated natural systems track.Hatfield Marine Science Center in publication. Governor's office todesignate natural systems tech as a its funding should be treated aseconomic infrastructure, not a energy and marine technology clusteraround UW's Applied Physics Lab generation of companies. What we lackis a policy framework that treats
required to honor in-networkagreements through plan year markets without full federal action. Anyof these offer Oregon a partial on-ramp live in Washington, taking jobs andfuture tax base with them. LLC flexibility. 'Silicon Slopes' growth was partly drivenby deliberate state policy coordinating receives essentially no meaningfulstate economic development support. that have successfully seeded startupecosystems outside traditional tech portfolio of digital-sector companies itactively supported. and AI as legitimate targets foreconomic development, not just enables civic tech and startupinnovation and should be actively metros can build credible techecosystems through deliberate volumes of oceanographic, forestry, andclimate data through OSU, USFS, and natural systems tech accelerator —modeled on what MBARI does in Newport is recognized as an anchor fora small but growing coastal innovation strategic economic sector.Congressional delegation to advocate discretionary science budget. The ElliottState Research Forest's transition to a demonstrates that federal researchfacilities can anchor private sector software, data, and distributed work asfirst-class economic activity rather than
regardless of mid-contractrenegotiations. Oregon Health Authority toward the goal. university pipelines, tax incentives, andworkforce development — Oregon has Business Oregon's programs arelargely invisible to a founder building a hubs. Reform incentive structures sothey apply to payroll and R&D chipmakers and logistics expanded rather than merelymaintained. placemaking and anchor institutioncooperation — Portland has the bones NOAA facilities based here. But theeconomic value derived from that data Monterey but with explicit economicdevelopment mandate — that helps cluster. Oregon forest landowners haveaccess to affordable AI-assisted for NOAA and USFS facility investmentin Oregon as economic development, working research forest is exactly theright model and should be protected growth with the right state policyenvironment. Alaska's fisheries data an afterthought to physical industryincentives. The four areas I addressed
could expand OHP bridge coverage forworkers at startups below employee- the raw ingredients (OSU, OHSU, PSU)but lacks the coordinating infrastructure. SaaS company in a Portland apartment expenditure rather than physical capitalinvestment. for this but lacks the coordination. — the analytics companies, the carbonmarket platforms, the fisheries Oregon researchers spin outcompanies rather than publish and management tools built andmaintained in-state. not just science. and expanded. infrastructure, while federally driven,shows what mandatory open data with — workforce healthcare continuity,business climate for startups, tools for
count thresholds for group planrequirements. management software, the remotesensing startups — is being captured watch others commercialize. commercial licensing looks like atscale — Oregon's coastal fisheries digital-sector growth, and naturalsystems science as economic
in California, Washington, andMassachusetts. Oregon is a data-rich, data should be equally accessible. development — are not separateproblems. They are the same problem
economy-poor natural systems sciencestate. viewed from different angles: Oregonkeeps generating value and exporting it
to other states because we have notbuilt the connective tissue to capture it
here. The people who can fix this arealready in Oregon. They are founders,
researchers, engineers, and scientistswho chose to be here because they
love it. The Council's job is to make thatchoice economically rational as well as
emotionally satisfying. That is atractable problem with known solutions.
Lane Toensmeier 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Fair tax policy that ensures revenue for public services Tax abatements based only on The development of a model or protocol Legislature and local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I hope this input is useful.NA NA
evidence of economic development to evaluate requests for tax abatementbased on evidence of job creation or
Brett Campbell 97123 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Huge subsidies for data centers, highways, and big fossil fueled End the huge boondoggles like data sustained economic development.Schools and colleges with much better Local governments can help by Residential infill, ending parking Austin's ability to build lots of affordable Yes Workforce NA Unaffordability of higher education, Eliminating cost barriers (including Public schools that give every student Educators must reprioritize spending to Outdoor/environmental education California's pre-Gov. Reagan funding of Yes Business climate Regressive tax system that fails to tax Add new brackets for high earners at The vast majority of Oregon families Mostly the legislature, which We should keep the income tax, not a Mostly these have been implemented in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please look beyond the usual self NA
developments instead of investment in local businesses, walkablecommunities with mixed commercial and residential development allowed, center tax expenditures/subsidies andthe Columbia River highway expansion graduation rates and achievement,sustainable growth from local farms reducing NIMBY barriers to sustainabledevelopment. State government must minimums and other recent anti-NIMBY,pro-sustainability policies should and middle housing and thereby lowerrents and barriers to home ownership. especially community colleges.Prioritizing useful skill development student debt) to higher education andcommunity colleges. Investing in an equal chance to achieve regardlessof zip code, with smaller classes and emphasize long term thinking skills andflexibility. Lawmakers must change the should be retained and restored. higher education from the 1940s-1960sproduced an unprecedented economic high earners and massive wealth whileimpoverishing middle class and low the $500K, $1 million, $5 million, andespecially billionaire level. Restore the would pay lower taxes, while theprivileged few who now pay only a determines the tax system. Ifconstitutional amendments are sales tax, but make it much moreprogressive. other countries, but several US states ,like California, are currently considering interested suspects to responsiblepublic interest sources such as Oregon
so that sustainable prosperity flows from small, locally grown businessesand profits stay in Oregon, rather than going to out of state investors. These disguised as a bridge. Invest thatmoney instead in education, local and businesses instead of big out ofstate corporations, with profits rein in the highway / Big Oil lobby andits vassals at DOT, ending state continue and expand statewide. Taxcredits and regulatory relief that Utah's legalization of balcony solar.Various sustainable energy and and creative, flexible thinking that will beuseful to graduates no matter how apprenticeships and partnerships withlocal businesses. Teaching critical and adequately paid teachers. A state whereany student with a B average in high funding system that perpetuatesinequality, by reducing or replacing the boom by investment in human capitalthrough free and low tuition, without income workers estate tax on estates over $2 millionand make it steeply progressive above fraction of what the rest of us pay(relative to wealth and income) would needed, the legislature can proposethose. wealth taxes. Center for Public Policy, CityObservatory, etc.
direct and indirect subsidies compete with and starve needed investmentsin renewable energy (solar, wind etc.), education, family farms, and business development andsustainable, walkable communities reinvested here in Oregon instead ofsiphoned off to out of state interests. subsidies (including the hidden ones)to out of state interests and big encourages more solar, wind and otherrenewable energy development should transportation policies in Minnesota,Massachusetts and Vermont. New technology changes. creative thinking that won't be outmodedwhen AI or other technological school can attend college free ofcharge, resulting in a much more property tax with a fairer fundingmechanism, and by redirecting taxpayer saddling graduates with lifetime debt. that level. It's the fairest tax because ittaxes beneficiaries who didn't earn that finally start paying their fair share, andthat money would then be invested in
homegrown local businesses. and public transportation, which makesliving and working here more affordable corporations, and redirecting thosefunds to local, sustainable businesses be expanded. The recent investment incommunity colleges should also York's congestion pricing. developments make vocational techtraining obsolete. Ending the reliance educated workforce and students who'llstay here in Oregon to work instead of subsidies from big corporations likedata centers and huge, badly managed money -- their rich daddies did. Thisprevents the growth of an aristocracy economic development policies thatbenefit all of us.
by reducing car dependency and theenormous subsidies to inefficient, and farms as well as schools andcommunity colleges and universities. continue. Efforts to make the tax codeless regressive (e.g. a higher top on property taxes to fund publiceducation, which just perpetuates going away. This would also helpreduce our growing inequality in the and planned highway projects toschools and colleges. based on unearned privilege in favor ofa meritocracy based on hard work and
carbon-intensive transportation anddevelopment patterns. bracket and more tax relief for lowincome workers) should continue. Out inequality. Investing in early childhoodeducation. longer run. A better educated workforcewhose local graduates are attractive to skill. Create a wealth tax on billionaires.Tax the things we don't want: pollution,
landmark urban growth boundary,environmental protection, and compact employers large and small so they don'thave to recruit out of state. absentee property owners, vacantproperties, etc.
development laws, which attractyounger skilled workers to Oregon,
should be strengthened, not weakened.
Susan Bladholm 97225 Organization/Business Frog Ferry Non-profit Technology Transportation 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Lack of access to public agency leaders, a deeply rooted culture ofmaintaining the status quo, and a lack of an innovation mindset (or spirit of True openness and willingness to learnfrom other markets. Without having a A culture where requests forconversations are answered at least I think this is a culture issue that needsto start from the top. I spent 20 years This is less about programs and moreabout culture. We can't just say "We Electric passenger ferries are a bestpractice in river cities across the country Yes Business climate NA Please hold leaders accountable.When some agency leaders are known Make a culture shift for every stateemployee to understand that they are a Motivated public employees who clearlyunderstand the importance of their role I believe this must start from the top--The Governor, to her department It would be interesting to see whatGallop Polls say about Oregon public I would look to the healthiest states inthe US. I believe Oregon is 39th in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please add more new people to yourcouncil. There are many incredibly 2026FFOnePager.pdf
curiosity). conversation, it's challenging toaddress questions public officials 50% of the time. Where carefullyresearched and planned projects are with Oregon public agencies and it wasunderstood that we were public need to partner." We need elected andagency officials to truly open their doors and around the world. We haveresearched about 20 of them and have for not accomplishing their goals, theyshould be held accountable. I know public servant, and their paycheck isgenerated by taxes paid by Oregonians. and how it impacts the well-being of allOregonians. With a cascading set of leaders, and cascading down as aculture of civic service. employee morale. I suggestbenchmarking morale along side public health. Let's look to state's in thetop 10. I believe Oregon was 14th in the people bringing positive meaningfulchange- however they do not have a
might have. The door is closed to manyof us. given an opportunity to be heard andconsidered. Where the large agencies servants and expected to be respectfuland responsive to constituents. and be responsive and respectful. Withclosed doors, there is no way that developed a comprehensive plan andfinancial model over the past nine years- there are many terrific departmentleaders, but it's very sad to see failing employees understand that-- and thatI sincerely doubt that many public objectives, have each employeeunderstand that they are there to serve benchmarking key success indicatorsfor Oregon-- personal health and ranking 15 years ago. We have fallenfrom #1 in education in the last 80s to seat at the table. Please add the"doers" and not just those with an
with considerable government affairsresources aren't gaining all of the meaningful change can happen-whether that be innovation, or change, worsening congestiondeveloped out of concern for climate leaders be allowed to stay in roles. Ithurts morale throughout the agency, it the positive side of it is that their job isimportant because it plays a all Oregonians across Oregon and theyhave a responsibility to be responsive, wealth. I know we are near the bottomfor education, cost of living, and #50. Oregon is very broken-- and it'shappened very fast. opinion who have not created jobs orcontributed to fostering healthier
attention and the new "little guy" is givensome space to be heard. programmatically, or for policies. (impacting livability), lack of emergencyresponse resources, and transportation hurts the credibility of state employees,and it hurts every day Oregonians. meaningful role in the livability ofOregonians across the state. This civil, and respectful. business attractiveness. I believe if wehave motivated public employees with a Oregonians. I'm very glad to see ReneeJames on the Council, as I heard her
projects that have continued to flail.Ferries are in demand, enjoyable, and should be less about partisanship andmore about "all Oregonians." clear understanding of their role,coupled with clear goals for what speak at the Oregon Business Summitand she was very impressive-- direct,
very affordable (due to low cap ex andop ex costs). success looks like for Oregon-- allOregonians will prosper. Currently it candid, and not allowing glibresponses. We need to act with
feels like consistently one group issingled out for funding-via partisan urgency and make critical movesimmediately. This state does a lot of
issues. Oregon's health should not bepartisan. talking and a lot less evolving.
Robert Liebman 97205 Both Consulting Private NA Education 1 - 20 people Workforce Decades of underfunding of higher education Increase appropriations to offset hightuition in order to boost access by Growing enrollments and shorter timeto degree completion in order to provide Legislature Redesign and expand Oregon Promiseto provide support to students at four- Tuition waivers and subsidies fromemployers No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Business tax breaks for investmentshrink Oregon's revenues. A better NA
Oregonians of low-moderate incomes a skilled workers that Oregon needs year universities strategy is to invest in high quality publiceducation that offers employers skilled
workers and the human capital neededfor innovation.
Eric Paxton 97302 Organization/Business Paxbytes LLC Private Technology NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon over taxes business, making it difficult to build wealth. As a equityholder and building startups recent decisions to tax QSBS feels like yet Lower taxes on businesses undercertain thresholds so that we can NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
another challenge to innovation and building a business in Oregon. provide better paying jobs and a thrivingeconomy.
Cash Watson 97068 Organization/Business Enterprise Mobility Public Business andProfessional Transportation and 500-1000 people Tools for growth The current vehicle registration system is increasingly outdated and unableto meet the operational demands of today’s mobility landscape. As a To support the evolving needs ofOregon’s transportation ecosystem, we Based on the established processes inneighboring states and recent To successfully modernize Oregon’svehicle registration and fleet plate NA We work closely with Vitu in this arena.They work with several other states, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA •As one of Oregon’s larger employers,we see several opportunities for the NA
Services MobilityProvider comprehensive mobility provider offering car and truck rentals, vehiclesales, ridesharing, and commuter transportation services, our organization propose the implementation of anelectronic vehicle registration system discussions with the Oregon DMV, themodernization of Oregon’s vehicle systems, coordinated action from theDMV is essential. The primary barrier to including California, who have amodern and efficient process State to reduce administrative barriersand enable businesses to invest more
relies on efficient and scalable registration processes to manage a diverseand rapidly evolving fleet. To support continued growth, ensure regulatory that significantly reduces reliance onpaper forms and wet signatures. registration and fleet plate systems isboth realistic and achievable. With progress is the State’s currenttechnology infrastructure, which is not effectively in their facilities andcommunities. A key area of concern is
compliance, and enhance service delivery across the state, there is anurgent need to modernize the fleet plate registration process. Updating this Transitioning to a digital process wouldstreamline registration workflows, appropriate prioritization by the State,this initiative can be successfully yet equipped to support a fully digital,streamlined registration process. the extensive regulatory and permittingrequirements associated with
system will reduce administrative delays, improve data accuracy, andenable mobility companies to better serve residents, businesses, and shorten processing times, andeliminate the environmental impact implemented within a two yeartimeframe. This timeline aligns with Advancing this initiative will requiretargeted investment in updated construction and propertyimprovements. These processes, while
visitors. Modernization is not only a matter of operational efficiency, it isessential infrastructure for the future of transportation. associated with shipping thousands ofphysical documents each year. comparable digital transformationefforts in the region and reflects the systems and tools capable ofsupporting electronic workflows. Given well intentioned, have increasinglyhindered our ability to modernize and
Modernizing the fleet plate process isespecially critical for large mobility readiness of both industry partners andstate agencies to support a more the scope of modernization needed,legislative action may be necessary to enhance our locations across the state.A recent example in the Portland metro
providers responsible for maintainingextensive and diverse vehicle fleets. A efficient, technology driven registrationframework. allocate appropriate funding andauthorize the technological upgrades area illustrates this challenge. Afterengaging architects, engineers, and
digital, automated system would enablecompanies to manage registrations required. With clear prioritization andsupport from both the DMV and state general contractors, we developed acomprehensive plan to significantly
more efficiently, reduce annual and biannual vehicle downtime, and ensure leadership, Oregon can implement amodern, efficient registration framework upgrade one of our rental facilities. Theproject would have delivered
that vehicles remain available for theOregonians who rely on them. that meets the needs of residents andmobility providers alike. substantial benefits: a fully renovatedbuilding exterior, new signage, a
Increased fleet availability directlybenefits residents whose personal redesigned parking lot, and animproved interior environment for both
vehicles are undergoing repairs, havebeen damaged, or who simply need a customers and employees. Theseenhancements represented a
reliable mobility option for travel or dailylife. As a total mobility provider, we want meaningful investment in thecommunity and a clear improvement to
to emphasize that the vast majority ofour customers are local Oregonians the surrounding area. However, oncethe proposal was submitted to the City,
seeking dependable transportationsolutions. Enhancing the state’s the project encountered prolongeddelays. When feedback was finally
Erik Gunderson 97206-3204 Organization/Business Gunderson Employment Private Business and NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Infrastructure, public services, and labor pool registration infrastructure is not only anoperational improvement—it is anGrowing businesses should have 1. Adequate affordable housing for The state needs to set more rigorous If I had known about availability of Salt Lake City adopted an effective No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA received, the required changes morethan doubled the projected cost.Getting adequate support for working NA
Law LLC ProfessionalServices reliable infrastructure, support from thestate, and a well-educated pool of talent workers to reduce upward pressure onwages to accommodate cost of living. 2. minimum standards for educationalachievement and adequately distribute support from the OED for when mybusiness went through the pandemic I "housing first" approach to resolvinghomelessness. Sacramento has people and finding the sweet spot forenough taxes to pay for it and low
to recruit employees. Better educational performance from K-12 schools, more Oregonians with funding to local school boards. Thestate needs to set reasonable would have taken advantage of itinstead of taking out expensive long adopted some innovative techniques foraffordable housing as well. For some enough taxes to not deter compliance isa challenge, I realize, but that is the core
associates' and bachelors' degrees tomeet professional challenges of maximum standards for construction ofnew housing and local governments term loans. I did not know anyassistance was available for a recently- reason, people are competing to gettheir kids enrolled in District of function of the government. Everyonetakes their cue from the Governor and
tomorrow. 3. Roads in better repair andreliable delivery of water, electricity, and need to meaningfully remove obstaclesto building and refurbishment of opened self-employed entrepreneur,though. As it stands, I am still uncertain Columbia schools to such an extentthat D.C. is policing where people live to the Legislature, so it is important tolead by example as well as adopting a
internet access to support commercialactivities. housing. Infrastructure must update tobe ahead of housing needs. When about new mandatory retirementaccount programs, whether or not I am make sure kids are enrolled in the rightschools -- what are they doing right in feedback-friendly approach to fine-tuning the government's balance
people are empowered to achieve, theyexcel. required to pay unemploymentpremiums, or what other programs I D.C.? between supporting people andkeeping a light touch on their employers.
need to comply with. There should be aone-stop shop for businesses to get
compliant with the law and theadministrative and tax burden should
be reasonable enough that small butexpanding businesses can afford to
Cindi Dale 97703-8675 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Options for technical training including, practical reading, writing and math More use of the community college Policy changes the provide for 9-12 All of the above need to work together to take new employees on.Community colleges Los Angeles County Community No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Business leaders need to partner with NA
skills system for 9-12 graders to be duelenrolled for half of the school day graders to duel enroll in communitycollege classes the are technical provide preparation more forwardthinking individuals to be ready to lead College system has a duel enrollmentprogram that encompasses many good k12 and higher ed to help make this areality and input as to what their needs
courses with real worldapprenticeships during a third yea or the work force through the rest of the21st century. The basic liberal arts practices. If a program like that could beimplemented with an additional option skills are for their workforce.
advanced placement general edclasses that ready students toward high degrees are not specific enough. Manystudents graduate high school and for technical skills/apprentice programsit could be a good start. Life skills need
education degree programs atcommunity colleges or state schools. even college and no idea what to do. to folded into all new training programs
NA 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Affordability and cost of living for poor and working-class Oregonians.a working class Oregonian I find that councils like this one rarely represent As Expand universal preschool statewidewhile maintaining the funding structure Full implementation would not happenin 2-3 years but we could have Legislators in partnership with earlylearning professionals and training Widespread protection for public lands,unemployment benefits for striking NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As I noted, I am extremely disappointedthis council is so representative of NA
me and rarely include opportunities for our voices to actually make adifference. This survey is a case in point, as it was NOT distributed widely that taxes high-income individuals.Preschool for All is an important thoughtful implementation of pilot sitesserving diverse geographic providers (to scale up and prepare theworkforce) workers, expansion of Oregon HealthPlan to universal care (as an employee CEOs, and I am disappointed but notsurprised this survey was distributed
or early enough for me to meaningfully prepare remarks. program for the workforce as it enablesparents to return to work while communities. at a small nonprofit, I am experiencingastronomical costs for health care with so little chance for people whowork real jobs to prepare and submit
maintaining quality care for theirchildren. In addition the program because my employer cannot competein the private marketplace. Is there a testimony. Real community prosperity isgenerated by workers, and we should
provides living wages to preschoolworkers who are professional way employers could opt employeesinto the state health plan?) be at the table to advise and makedecisions.
educators. It also sustains smallpreschool providers, who are important
players for the state and local economy.
Steve Salman 97478 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce We need more Career Technical Education (CTE) in our high schools,which will prepare young folks to seek employment in many skilled trades Would like to see CTE mandated in allschool districts within 4 - 5 years. Small We would have a new generation ofworkers ready to provide necessary Legislature, local governments, schoolboards, Union apprentice programs Community colleges provide great post-secondary skilled-labor programs for I am not aware of how other states aredealing with these issues. My focus is No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Just that in lots of government areaswithin the state we don't really have a NA
that, in spite of all of the other things that contribute to enhanced prosperity,are going to continue to be in demand: plumbers, electricians, carpenters, districts could pair up or work throughtheir Education Service Districts to services and also to fill the bulk of good-paying Union construction jobs in order and community colleges. many different trades, including foodpreparation/service and health care, Oregon. "spending problem"; more like arevenue problem. We need to make the
truck drivers, etc. accomplish this. Also: set up CTE towork in conjunction with local to build (and/or remodel) all of thecommercial and industrial structures including nurse training. These areaswill be vital going forward. Community income tax much more progressive:less at the lower levels and much
community college programs and laborunion apprentice programs. and large-scale residential projectsnecessary to accommodate all of the colleges are also able to adapt fairlyquickly to job-market changes in local higher rates for the wealthy.need to consider (groan) yet again a We also
other aspects of enhancing prosperityin Oregon. areas, so that in places with high-techprospects workers can be trained in sales tax. The last proposal that wassent to voters (approx. 30 years ago),
relevant job-specific areas. would have offset a lot of the sales taxwith property tax reductions, and also
have a tax credit to offset all, or a goodportion, of sales taxes paid by lower-
income folks. Those driving luxuryvehicles, buying high-end goods
(pleasure boats, large motorhomes,etc.) would pay the bulk of the net tax,
and the property tax reductions wouldhelp older folks stay in their homes,
possibly lower rents, etc. (I know it's along shot, but states with all 3 legs on
their stools seem to do better overall,economics-wise, than those trying to
balance on only two. I also realize that itis political suicide for an elected official
to bring up the subject, which is why itwould have to be put on the ballot by an
outside group or coalition).
Steven Demarest 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Accessibility to post-secondary education and training. Reduce costs and expand trainingopportunities. Increased participation in highereducation and in training programs. Legislative requirements for statewidestandards in K-12 for proven programs, Tuition-free community college forrecent high school grads Mandatory state standards for K-12,sufficient school counselors, automatic Yes Tools for growth NA Housing and transportation Public housing and housingdevelopment where the private market More affordable housing; maintainedroads, pubic transit, safe options for Government development of housing.Establish stable revenue for NA NA Yes Business climate Fair labor standards for a stable, wellfunctioning workforce. Require livable wages. Allow workers toorganize for collective bargaining. NA Government require workforcestandards in exchange for business NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
including science of reading; legislativereduction of student post-secondary college eligibility, free communitycolleges, cost coverage does not meet need; stable andsufficient transportation funding. vulnerable road users. transportation. incentives.
costs in state schools, expansion oftraining programs.
Melinda Merriam 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The biggest barrier is wealth hoarding. Without a large number of peoplewho can afford to buy Oregon businesses’ products, business won’t grow. Tax the wealthy, tax corporations, stopgiving tax benefits like a remodeled People able to afford housing,healthcare, and food. You know, the Legislature, governor Transit! Portland transit is a gem. Itneeds money, not cuts. Washington just passed a millionairetax. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The people don’t want data centers andAI. We know they will take all the NA
Moda Center to a multi millionaire, andno more tax-free land giveaways. basics of a simple life. electricity and water and NOT createjobs.
Len Norwitz 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Turnover of workers and limited institutional knowledge in workplaces.Coming from a Labor Union/worker perspective - I believe having collective Regardless of whether the business orindustry is represented by a collective More stable workforce and levels ofownership of the work. And significantly Employers need to dig in to thoseindustries where workers are Programs that encourage collectivebargaining and incentivize. Plenty of examples in many facets ofwork already here in Oregon. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
bargaining agreements with workers in a specific industry or effortenhances the product of goods and services. Unions provide stability and bargaining agreement .... look to involveand engage workers in decision- more widespread work site institutionalknowledge and successes. represented and find out best practicesthat are transferable. And yes
continuity in the workforce as well as accountability. And encourageworkers to seek out efforts for training and best practices. making and goal setting andaccountability. education and training for howemployers can model changes. No
legislation or government assistance isneeded - but encouragement is helpful
Marcia Kelley 97302 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate availability of childcare for workers who often have both parents in the workforce Look at what can be eliminated in taxcredits to fully fund employment related We would not have a waitlist for ERDC Legislature needs to fund by finding taxcredits for corporations that are I no longer have a small business justan observer. New Mexico is providing free preschoolfor all. Yes Workforce NA Evaluate the downturn in support forHigher Ed including community college I would suggest returning Oregon to thethree legged stool for business taxes We would start reinvesting at higherlevels in Higher Ed, Apprenticeships The legislature current workforce boards need to bebeefed up in addition to the funding I would need to research that. Yes Tools for growth While I think permitting could speed upthe real issue is throwing money via tax Hire unbiased evaluators through theoffice of economic advisors rather than A much more vibrant tax expenditurereport starting with some of the big The Legislature Our economic conditions will improvewhen we make sure we are educating New Mexico has preschool for all .... itis not an immediate fix but the only way No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I would like the prosperity council toknow that we already have many many NA
day care outdated and can be eliminated (Costsclose to 1.9 billion over a 6 year period since the passage of Ballot Measure 8 that arrived about 10 years after BM 5.Single sales factor favors large and community college issue. credits at this will no real evaluation butunbiased evaluators to get a real return having the department overseeingareas doing the evaluation. ticket items such as the StrategicInvestment Program our youngest through early childhoodprograms. We need families that have we will get out of this situation. Nolonger can economically challenged giveaways to businesses and that isgoing to continue to limit what we can
of time. corporations and puts individuals andsmall business paying more and more on investment on the many tax creditsand property tax modificatons. good childcare options so they canparticipate and their kids can start families succeed with education as Idid graduating from college in 1970 and do for our youngest who are the future.
as well as making education harder toattain because the cost of tuition. (and kindergarten ready to learn. We will nothave a good educational outcome until educated my entire life in the OregonPublic School system.
large repayments) we don't have 82 percent of our statecapitol's school district students
economically challenged.
Kayla Boylan 97838 Organization/Business Lamb Weston Public Food andBeverage NA 1000+ people Business climate All of the focus areas are relevant for the success or failure of our company,but two are particularly timely and concerning. Business Climate – For the CPP, immediately stop andrescind the executive order establishing Ensure the State created costs forconsumers and businesses do not First and foremost, the Governor mustact on the CPP and regulatory agencies The state has started to work togetherwith other agencies (Department of A Cap and Trade type program forcarbon reduction. Further, if Oregon is No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Time is running out as identified by theState Budget Officer. This cannot be a NA
Currently in the State of Oregon, the business climate is predictable –nearly 100% focused on activities that are likely to make businesses either the program and devise legislation, withinput from all stakeholders, to interact increase over the next 2-3 years, andhopefully maybe decline from the within the limits of her power. Foractions outside of the Governor, the Environmental Quality (DEQ), OregonDepartment of Agriculture (ODA), and able to fashion a model that is morebusiness friendly than Washington or multiyear project because in the void,agencies will make the business
fail or decide to leave the state. From the high taxes to increased costsacross the board, Oregon is arguably the most expensive state in which we with neighboring states.state will seek input from stakeholders, Often the current high baseline. These costswould be energy and water costs, Governor must identify specificlegislative changes to modify agency Oregon State University (OSU) tosupport program initiatives in the land California, it could see businesseschoosing Oregon over those other two operating environment even worse.
operate (we do not operate in California). Costly programs and regulationsare being layered, one on top of the other: increased requirements on air but it is obvious during the proceedingsthat any input from business is permitting and permitting complianceand labor related issues initiated by the directives and halt agency action untilthe legislature can act. application for Water Pollution ControlFacility (WPCF) permits. This states. At a minimum, linkage withother states could provide more
contaminant discharge permitting, significant restrictions on wastewaterpermitting, the Cleaner Air Oregon program, CPP, workforce regulations to somehow treated as biased by both theagency and adverse interest groups state. interagency group has been recentlysupported by the Governor’s office to be momentum for the program,consistency in costs, and reduce risk of
name a few. The view seems to be – “it doesn’t matter how much it costs(for permits or compliance) business will pay it.” That approach is simply and not in the state’s interest. Thisneeds to change. Business as the developed and work together to developworkable solutions to the WPCF leakage.
not sustainable, particularly in challenging or competitive global markets.Looking forward, the State’s approach on the CPP will likely make or break employers and tax revenue creatorsare the economic engine for the state. permitting and compliance process. Weare fully supportive of this group
some significant employers that are not able to pass costs along tocustomers. Tools for growth – Similar to above, the State is enacting Basing virtually most decisions on theviews of the recipients of state continuing to work together to develop asustainable and beneficial program for
tools for failure rather than growth and the OR State Budget Officer informedthe legislature of that exact scenario. The State is enacting ambiguous spending has put the state in thesituation it now faces. The state has land application of industrial water.The state is also looking at
policy for reductions with no clear metrics for obtaining those aggressivereductions. In many cases, BAERs or BACTs are already incorporated into recognized companies as EITEs andhas studies detailing the potential risks opportunities to fund specific projectssuch as Clean Water Initiatives and
business practices, leaving an unclear path for continued reductions.Again on CPP – this past and upcoming regulation is an unforced error on from such entities (2018 Vivid Study).The state needs to act in a manner that Wastewater Treatment. Those fundingopportunities should continue and be
the part of the State. It is an executive action that is out of sync with thebroader established Cap and Trade markets of its neighbors and should will allow such businesses to operateand potentially grow in Oregon. The expanded to support businesses inOregon.
be postponed and adjusted to accomplish the states’ climate protectiongoals and not bankrupt businesses in the process. current proposals do not reflect thatreality. The existing CPP structure is
going to push business out of the stateto meet the demands established in
Table 5 and Table 8 of OAR 340-273-9000. The current regulations only allow
20% of CCI credits to demonstratecompliance (Table 5) while the
Nierada Nititadakul 97223 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate There's a lot that can be changed when it comes to the business climate in emission reduction targets the statehas for covered EITE is up to 45% of theI'd like to see tax laws implemented that I don't think we'd be able to see Create a marketing program to help I'd like to see the State Level Research Look into Michelin Star recomendations No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please bring awareness that this NA
Oregon. 1. Is the way that companies perceive Oregon when considering toinvest and grow their business here - outside of Oregon there's a impact businesses directly. When youhave businesses that thrive better in the success that fast, change doesn'thappen overnight. I think it's continuing boost the economy. Work withorganizations like Business Oregon or and Development Tax Credit re-instated. It sunset in 2017; but there can and see if the $1-3 Million is worth it toinvest to highlist some of the great council exists to the population so morepeople can share their input.
marketing issue in attracting investors to come here. 2. There's many stopgaps to the regulations when organizations want to growth, because of all private space - it allows for steadier jobgrowth, and resources to be given back to work together as a public to boost thegeneral economy. Create more jobs, Prosper Portland to share grants thatare available for businesses to help be a revenue cap put in place so thatsmaller to medium-sized companies restaurants we have in Oregon andWine Country. Change the narrative and
of the permitting involved companies are getting more attractive growthoffers to move out of state. 3. There is a disconnect when it comes to the tax to the publics. don't tax people out of living in certainareas, find pathways for affordable them grow. Educate people onaccessibility to loans with Craft3. This can take advantage and reinvest it backinto job growth. make Oregon a travel destination so itencourages more people to move here.
laws and trying to build business incentives, yes we have the R&D Creditfor the semi-conductors, but we should consider bringing it back from a housing and making Oregon a placepeople want to put roots. coalition is focused on making changeand economic growth accessabile to
state-level offering so that manufacturing can grow. If that industry grew by11% that's millions of dollars given back into the Oregon treasury through businesses. Legistlatures should takethe time to visit the local businesses in
income tax. We can create a revenue cap for businesses over a certainamount so state funding for these incentives can be focused on small and their districts and hear of thechallenges people face from a small
medium business growth. business side and on the larger scaleand really look at how we can create
more development here.
Rob Bennett 97202 Both My consultancy -Patternworks Private NA Urban andcommunity 1 - 20 people Business climate Statewide tax overhaul Identify 2-3 complete overhaulrecommendations of statewide tax Real tax reform legislation readied forthe next legislative session. Let’s focus Build a tax reform or tax modernizationcoalition made up of electeds, NA Let’s take or school for all and PCEFstatewide with a shared funding model, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
development structure, including a separate track forMetro Portland, to include introducing a on building the case over over time -including many at the table and business groups, labor, and localgovernments that are committed to co- not simply taxing one set of groups topay for these programs. In other words,
modest sales tax and reduction ofcorporate and individual income tax socializing with key constituency groups. designing a tax system for the 22ndcentury. a carbon and form of VATT.
rates, streamlining the number of taxes,and redressing property tax restrictions
through proposed constitutionalamendment. We need to build a
powerful and simple agenda to take tothe public regarding modernizing our
tax system to focus on supporting smallbiz, biz growth, and overall
competitiveness. The narrative of tax therich should be reframed as creating a
fair system that balances the needs ofall Oregonians, vs pitting us against
one another in a form of class warfare.
Tara May 97818 Organization/Business Threemile Canyon Farms Private Food andBeverage Agriculture 101-500 people Business climate We appreciate that Oregon's environmental regulatory framework shows acommitment to ensuring Oregonians can enjoy all that makes our state We believe that any meaningful changewill require greater accountability of We are strong advocates for thoughtful,effective regulation. In fact, we are proud The legislature is able to hold agenciesaccountable by signing off on the NA Again, we will reference the effectiveprocess associated with the recent No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
beautiful, safe and prosperous both in the present and for generations tocome. When developed by experts and in consultation with stakeholders, agency leadership for fostering aculture of continuous learning and to exceed most regulatory stands forour industry. We believe that in several budgets, so that the legislature canrequire, as part of their process, an ODA rulemaking, and also shine a lighton other efforts designed to thoughtfully
we have seen that Oregon regulators can achieve this goal. One recentexample is the rulemaking process undertaken by the Oregon Department improvement, as well as theregulations that they develop. When years, there will be a culture thatsupports inclusion of experts and audit on practices, process andoutcomes. Similarly, the oversight engage with stakeholders to offersolutions, such as those associated
of Agriculture that is designed to address elevated nitrate levels in theLUBGWMA. This collaborative effort illustrates that when experts and poorly conceived regulation becomesofficial, we can assume that lack of transparency of process – all enabledby a system of accountability to the boards have a duty to not only ensurethat the organization is acting ethically – with the idea of "industrial symbiosis" ormore specifically, water reuse
impacted communities work together, the resulting regulation is strongerand works as intended. While we may not have agreed with every aspect of accountability is at the core. leadership of those agencies. but effectively. Metrics for evaluatingpolicy efficacy should be developed and programs. In numerous regionsthroughout the country, water reuse
the final rules, we appreciated the process and believe the rules can beimplemented. This is not always the case when working with Oregon used as a standard against whichagency leadership are evaluated. programs such as the one operated inBoardman through the Port of Morrow,
regulatory agencies. We understand that not every agency employee is asubject matter expert, nor do we expect that, and our request is that the are taking what would otherwise bewaste product and using it to reduce
agency acknowledges this simple fact by seeking support from experts withgreater regularity. Being receptive to expertise means greater opportunity commercial fertilizer utilization andconserve water. From California to
for success and efficiency. Those of us in agriculture can tell pretty quicklywhen an agency lacks a basic understanding of agronomy and modern Maryland, these programs are makinghigh value use of water that would
farming. We understand that this is not always the fault of the agency, butwe are troubled by the inability to consult with those who have the education otherwise require significan andexpensive treatment.
and experience that they do not possess.
Taylor Jackson 97215 Both Generation Solar Private Business andProfessional NA I don't know Business climate I’m a long term serial entrepreneur focused on sustainability who justmoved to Oregon for my partner’s job. Every potential investor and Keep a high income tax on high earners- that’s fine. But all of the oregon NA Legislature and governor NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services cofounder I talk to says I should relocate before starting a business.tax and regulatory environment on businesses is too regressive to attract The specific shenanigans with the qsbsdeduction, bonus depreciation, and
outside capital or cofounders. other business specific taxes areenormous sandbags on achieving a
vision. Business is already hardenough without them - I would seriously
consider moving before starting a highgrowth business, which is sad - I like it
Gabe Genauer 97212 Both Groundswell Development Private Business and Construction 1 - 20 people Business climate Remove barriers to permitting. Provide incentives to reduce homelessness here!Provide advocates for people trying to Easier and less expensive to build from All of the above Opportunity Zone program state level Florida does a much better job No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Inc. ProfessionalServices Management and crime. build / improve commercial and multi-family to expedite permitting and avoid an entitlement perspective. Cleaner,safer commercial districts to help small participation with federal managing homelessness than we do.
estateand Real bureaucratic quagmires. Also, provideincentives for organizations and efforts businesses survive and thrive.
development that actually reduce crime andhomelessness, performance and
results based incentives.
Helen Moss 97323 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA More money for education, especially higher education. Stop giving tax incentives to businesses. Employers coming to Oregon becauseof the highly qualified workforce. All of them. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Jordan Rice 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The tax situation, especially in MultCo, is driving investors and investmentout of the city and out of the state. Many of the angel investors I speak with, End PFA completely. Stop taxes that arevoted in by ballot but only kick in for Attracting new talent and capital to theregion because it made economic Local and state government. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and higher net worth folks who would fund or start future business andstartups are telling me they are actively either planning or considering a certain highly mobile earners. Make theservices, safety, and cleanliness sense for them. No one thinks it makeseconomic sense to come here any
move. It’s eroding what little ecosystem we had left.harder to justify staying. It makes me incredibly sad. I myself am finding it equivalent with the tax rate. We can’thave less for more much longer. longer.
NA 97220 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The biggest friction I see is the type of policies related to regulation,permitting, and taxation, while also maintaining long-term revenue stability That there is some sort of oversight ofhow businesses permits will be That we are not replicating harm incommunities where there is already I think it all touches the legislature, localgovernments, employers, NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I would like us to balance the interest ofOregonians and business. That we NA
to support public services and economic growth. Especially with thepassage of HB 4102, that Privatized DEQ Permits. Plus also the friction of expedited with the passage of HB 4102. high environmental pollution. education/training partners level. Wehave to prioritize having clean air, water prioritize a livable environment foreveryone while still allowing business
the expedition of building out data centers in Oregon. and soil. in our state to operate. While generatingmuch needed revenue for Oregon.
NA 97914 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Getting rid of trump Vote Being happy again Getting rid of the repubs they’redestroying the US Mail in voting Nothing No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
