Gail Henrikson 97103 Organization/Business Clatsop County Public NA LocalGovernment 101-500 people Business climate Coordination between state permitting agencies and flexibility to help geteconomic development projects across the finish line. Give state staff flexible processes andparameters in which the can make A system of coordinated andcommunicating state permitting Governor and state agency directors Business Oregon has several goodprograms and their current NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The threshold for eligibility for ruralFastTrack programs should be lowered NA
decisions that are consistent with theintent of the rules, if not the letter of the agencies that are working with localgovernments to get living wage modernization efforts should onlyimprove those. to $10M
rules. If staff is only citing code withoutoffering potential solutions, economic economic development projects acrossthe finish line in the least amount of
development can be hindered for yearsor decades. time possible.
Ciara Pressler 97211 Organization/Business Pregame Inc Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth My clients include hundreds of small businesses across Oregon, so thisfeedback is based on a wide swath, not just my own experience. There is NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services a massive gulf of support for entrepreneurs to go from one person toscale/economic impact. All of the local business accelerators are
nonprofit/government administered, and advisors/curricula are notaggressive or current re what it takes to grow a business. Most teach
how to start a business, but they don't have a track record or reliablemethodology for increasing revenue. Here is a panel I moderated on the
topic: https://vimeo.com/1139435261?fl=ip&fe=ec
Kimberley Priestley 97204 Organization/Business WaterWatch of Oregon Non-profit NA Riverconservation 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Challenge: Environmental protection in Oregon in the face of federalrollbacks. Outdoor related economies provide huge benefits to our state. Protect against rollbacks at the statelevel. Strengthen laws/policies to Protecting and restoring our naturallands and waters, implementation of Natural Resource Agencies, Gov. Kotek,Legislature Modernization of Oregon's water laws toensure a sustainable water future NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prosperity for Oregon necessarilymeans protecting the lands, waters and NA
We would urge the prosperity council to focus on ensuring environmentalprotections in this state remain strong. protect Oregon's special lands, watersand species. Partner with green Governor Kotek's EO 25-26, progressunder the Integrated Water Resources fish/wildlife that make Oregon Oregon,and are so important to our
businesses. Strategy communities, cultures and economies.We urge you to ensure that protection
and restoration of these attributes is acornerstone of the Council's work.
Tanya Hartnett 97201 Organization/Business Working Waterfront Coalition Non-profit Metals andMachinery NA 1000+ people Tools for growth Portland is currently updating the Economics Opportunity Analysis(EOA)that is supposed to make sure there is enough industrial land for the have the City be honest about howmuch Industrial land is actually shovel Policy in place that incentivizesbusinesses, i.e. tax deductions, grants, Legislature and Local Goverments Don't know Don't know Yes Business climate NA Marine Industrial businesses arefrustrated and held back along the Clearly define what a river dependentbusiness is, and acknowledge that all New Regulations and permitting inplace that make sense for each of the legislature, local government don't know don't know Yes Workforce Getting trained labor force into theIndustrial businesses. The Industrial Many of the Industrial businesses alongthe waterfront have training programs enough trained labors to fill the jobs legislature, local governments,employers, education/training partners don't know don't know No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA There is a lot of proposed policy takingplace in Portland that affects the entire NA
projected jobs and the EOA will also inform future policies like the NorthReach Plan on the Willamette and the Tree Code. Currently city staff is ready, then come up with an actual planto create policy that would give funds etc, that would allow businesses tomake constrained Industrial land North Reach of the Willamette, becauseof regulations, permitting and taxation. buildings on the property that thebusiness needs to have are river Industrial businesses-sight specific-along the Willamette that identify their businesses struggle to find enoughtrained labor to fill the jobs. and scholarship programs and workclosely with PCC to place students into state. Portland city staff if forming thesepolicies with only looking at how it
saying Portland has enough industrial land for the jobs projection, however,in that number, what they say is available, is actually constrained land-i.e. and incentives to get the constrainedIndustrial land shovel ready. shovel ready River dependent businesses havevoiced concerns about the cost of dependent. Acknowledge that heavyindustrial businesses, fuel the specific needs in order to continue togrow their business. the programs. Unfortunately, PCC isloosing funding for these types of affects Portland, they are notacknowledging the effect to the state
brownfields, no infrastructure and up to a 25% slope. In the document, theysay that with investment this land will be shovel ready, but they are not regulations and permitting when theyneed to build structures that support economy and need to have regulationsthat make sense for them that do not programs. As well, there is not enougheducation at the high school level to and the region. The attitude of city staffis that Portland should not carry the
clearly defining a pathway or where the funds or programs will come fromto actually make the land usable. Portland staff is also ignoring studies on their business-its a long and arduousprocess that costs them a lot of time impede their operations. inform students about opportunities inthe traded sector burden, however if policy continues inthe trajectory it is currently going, then
jobs forecasting like the Marine Industrial Land Analysis (MILA) thatforecasts the baseline of harbor growth. and loss of business. River dependentis not clearly defined and because of the economy will continue its downwardspiral not only in Portland, but at the
this, they have to follow rules thatmakes no sense to their business state and regional sector as well.
Nate Costa 97401 Both University of OregonFoundation / Launch Oregon Non-profit Business andProfessional NA 21-100 people Business climate Taxation. Very relevant right now given Senate Bill 1507 going on currently.When state tax policy diverges from federal incentives that support Oregon should approach tax conformitythoughtfully, preserving alignment with Oregon is viewed as a stable,predictable state for long-term capital The Legislature must prioritize long-term economic competitiveness when QSBS and bonus depreciation (unlesswe lose those this year). University Texas and Florida maintain conformitywith federal tax treatment of small- No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Very appreciative of the work beingdone here by this group. Thanks for NA
Services investment and risk-taking, it can unintentionally raise the cost of capital forearly-stage companies that are trying to attract investment and scale here. federal incentives that lower barriers toinvestment and encourage long-term formation, where tax policy alignsthoughtfully with federal incentives like evaluating tax conformity and avoidpolicy volatility that raises the cost of Venture Development Fund, but need tomake some needed changes. business investment and capitalrecovery provisions, creating clarity for taking this on. Let me know how I canbe of service.
For example, carve-outs like eliminating state treatment of QSBS gains andbonus depreciation directly affect the economics of investment in startups risk capital formation. Rather thanautomatically decoupling from federal QSBS and bonus depreciation ratherthan creating uncertainty. Investors capital, while the Governor’s office andstate agencies must ensure Business Oregon matching grants forSBIR/STTR awards, but need to investors underwriting long-term risk.North Carolina pairs strong research
and capital-intensive ventures. provisions, the state should evaluate taxpolicy decisions through the lens of job would no longer price in state-leveldivergence as added risk, more coordination and predictable execution.Local governments should align increase award size and ease of gettingthe award. Programs like TOP at universities with coordinated stateeconomic development leadership and
creation, and early-stage capitalformation — because once incentives companies would choose toincorporate and scale in Oregon, and permitting and development timelineswith growth goals, and employers and University of Oregon, but need to seethe money actually get deployed instead faster site readiness for life sciencesand advanced manufacturing. Indiana
are removed or made uncertain,prospective founders and investors early-stage capital deployment andhigh-wage job growth would investors should continue deployingcapital and scaling companies in-state of just sitting in an account with noaction. has implemented predictable,performance-based incentive programs
simply look to other states. measurably increase. when policy signals support stabilityand long-term investment. and maintains a reputation forregulatory responsiveness. Michigan
has structured public-private co-investment vehicles that match private
capital into early-stage companieswhile keeping private investors in the
William A. Olson 97439 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Drug and alcohol addiction and access. Public intoxicated people and lack Strict enforcement of laws protecting the Fewer people addicted and less public All the above in concert with a stronger State Police and State Prison System. lead.Florida. Texas and not Minnesota and Yes Tools for growth A much more active and If any of your Council members bristol Leaders in Oregon need to be able to A happier, more peaceful and Mostly Christian leaders and bold The US and State Constitutions and Florida and Texas. Not California and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If you don't have Christian, Jewish or NA
of public concern for the addicted. Failures in arrest and procecution andimprisonment of drug dealers. public. and private affliction from drug abuse. and more determined Governor. County prosecutors. State and local lawenforcement. Illinois. prevalent Christian ethos inpublic affairs and daily life at the notion of an ever increasingpopulation of active Christian churches help others openly by sharing theredemptive faith and practices of a prosperous Oregon. individuals and their families willing toshare and sacrifice their lives for the Bylaws. Illinois or Minnesota. Muslim leaders involved from strongand open minded faith communities
and members, then your biasedperspective and possibly hostile Christian society in individuals,families, businesses and communities. benefit of others. you are missing out on the engines oftrue reform and progress!
reaction is itself a major impediment tocorrecting the majority of errors in public
policy and leadership. If you embraceand are open to the basic tenants of
Christian values then the way forwardfor Oregon is promising if not
progressive in dramatic ways.
Rachael Barry 97051 Both Lower Columbia RiverWatershed Council Non-profit NA Conservation 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Regulation and permitting To proactively pair restoration andconservation activities with smarter Better policy and permitting pathways toimprove water quality and ecosystem Local government, legislature, federalpartners Conservation focus areas of our naturalresource agencies There are so many! Even close by, WA'sapproach has many lessons. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Ken L Fincher 97601 Organization/Business Oregon Tech Public NA Education 101-500 people Workforce Due to legislative funding, Oregon's higher education providers are in a infrastructure and land use.Increase per-student state support to services alongside resilientinfrastructureIncreased output of students, reduction Legislature and Governor. Shared service models North Caorloina, Ohio, Iowa, Georgia, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA International business makes us more NA
precarious position. We are losing businesses and talent because of thehigh cost of higher education. match the top 10 states in the highereducation ranking. of student loans, which will allowgraduates to have more discretionary and Washington have strong models. attractive to foreign companies locating(relocating) to Oregon. Look at what
income, which will benefit businessesin Oregon Gerogia, Alabama, and South Carolinahave been able to do. Texas too.
Megan Pozos 97034 Both Team tube LLC Private Metals andMachinery Steel tubeschrome bar 21-100 people Tools for growth Heavy government and red tape. Heavy taxes. No real economic growth Make it easier to do business inOregon. Less red tape, less tax, more Higher employee retention, higherpersonal satisfaction and economic Government General services like fire police andmaintenance to keep state clean and Look at Nashville and its growth. It’samazing and has a solid middle class Yes Business climate NA Make it easier to run a business. Cutthe fat in government and spend Reduce Oregon state work force by40% and refocus monies to actual Fewer people on the streets and morepeople gainfully employed and Government None Nashville, Detroit, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Having a small manufacturer in Oregonfeels like a constant bleed and a slow NA
distributor business incentive especially in tradesand manufacturing position for middle class employees beautiful effectively tax dollars programs that help- education, mentalhealth services, etc businesses choosing Oregon asheadquarters death
Ryan Beckley 97068 Both TerraFirma FoundationSystems Inc. Private Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Business climate Taxation, regulation, cost of living. Radical deregulation of land use andpermitting processes. Elimination of 40% reduction of state staffing,reduction of permit issuance timelines The governor and state legislature. Very few departments are in anywayefficient or effective. ODOT is one of the Look at Arizona, Idaho, Tennessee,Florida, Texas. Prosperity is abundant No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Clearly the state and local governmentscannot be trusted to responsibly spend NA
Services unaccountable bureaucratic institutionsand staff. Reform the tax code, and costs by 50-75% worst, but most are either corrupt, orcompletely incompetent. and regulation is very limited. Thegovernment isn’t trying to lead, they are tax money, so stop trying to tax Oregonin prosperity. Return state government
eliminate C.A.T. trying to support. Having a state run bypeople with no business experience, to Values based leadership and startholding leaders accountable for
huge egos, unlimited power and zeroaccountability is a recipe for disaster. measurable outcomes.
Like what we are currently experiencing.
David Nelson 97801 Both farmers and ranchers ofEastern Oregon and not an Private Food andBeverage Irrigatedcrop land I don't know Tools for growth Bring Oregon farmers and ranchers to parity with Washington and Idahousing Columbia River water for agricultural growth Allow Oregon to use as much water asWashington or Idaho use for Circular pivot irrigation systemsapplying water to Oregon's farm land. Governor Kotek, legislatures, interestgroups such as the farmers, ranchers, Allow greater use of the Columbia River Idaho and Washington each irrigateover 3 million acres from the Columbia No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA n.a. Columbia%20River%20Proposal.docx
individual group agricultural growth. tribes, environmental groups. or its tributary, the Snake River. Oregonirrigates less that a million acres.
Chris Celauro 97215 Both Marketing andcommunications consulting. Private NA Businessconsulting 1 - 20 people Business climate Lower taxes on good earners and businesses. Attract big businesses with financialincentives. 5 big businesses have moved orexpanded operations to Portland. State and local legislators The new federal tax breaks. Washington. No state income tax. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Erin Borla 97759 Both Roundhouse Foundation Non-profit NA Nonprofit -Rural 1 - 20 people Workforce state level Community College support is a challenge; the HECC shouldincentivize them working together. Provide similar class codes to make iteasier for students to shift between More students aware of CC programsin their region; more students HECC NA See note above about California'sshared CC advertising Yes Tools for growth Committee Structure It is apparent that there is norepresentation on the committee from Add another committee member fromeast of the Cascades Better/clearer representation from theentire state to ensure prosperity for ALL Governor Appt. NA Use regional solutions in a moreeffective way. Include them in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Support programs and complete their degreesfaster. Shared marketing program completing their degrees even if theyhave to move mid-cycle east of the Cascades. This is achallenge when you are trying to Oregonians...not just those on the Westside. conversations and discuss the thingsthey are working on in a way that
dollars to support trade schools/allCommunity Colleges (similar to represent the whole state for economicprosperity. communities are aware of theirprogress.
California)
Leon Telesmanich 97136 Organization/Business Tillamook Bay SmallBusiness Development Public Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Workforce housing development, condition of roads. Resources prioritizing workforcehousing and road improvements small businesses would have a greaterpool of potential employees to choose local county and state government Business Oregon, including the CapitalAccess Program (CAP) Not familiar with other state practices No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA None NA
David Nelson (retired 97801 Both CenterFarmers/Ranchers of Private ServicesNA Retired I don't know Tools for growth Oregon uses less than 1/2 of 1% of the Columbia River water, while Bring Parity to Oregon in using the from.Water is being pumped from the A meeting of the minds of the Governor, Expand the economy by enacting Idaho irrigates over 3 million acres and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA /Users/davidnelson/Desktop/Columbia NA
Oregon State Senator 1996-2012) Eastern Oregon Farmer/politician Washington and Idaho combined use over 7% of the water. Yet Oregonsupplies over 14% of the volume of the Columbia. The Willamette River Columbia River. It would createBILLIONS of dollars in farm products. Columbia onto Oregon's agricultureland. the Legislature, and interested parties,ie farmers, tribes, environmentalists, common sense solutions to the use ofnatural resources. Washington is similar. Oregon irrigatesless than a million. Center pivot River Proposal.docx
flows more than the Colorado River. Allow Oregon to use the 3 to 4% of theColumbia as Washington and Idaho unions, chamber of commerce etc. irrigation cuts water use from 10 acrefeet to 2/3 acre feet to raise crops worth
each do over $5,000.00 per acre.
Susan Bladholm 97225 Organization/Business Frog Ferry Non-profit Business andProfessional Transportation 1 - 20 people Business climate - Decarbonization/Climate - Portland Downtown Activation - CommunityResilience Prioritize an electric passenger ferry tohelp connect communities and We can put a boat on the water withinthree years of funding. The City of Legislature to fund and City ofPortland/PCEF to fund- each at $10M. We are lacking in the ability to addressinnovative solutions. WA State has a Seattle: King Co and Kitsap Co FerriesSan Francisco: WETA Washington DC: No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We have done the work and can deliverquickly and economically. At a time with Frog%20Ferry%20PCEF%20Narrative%2005262025.pdf
Services attractions up and down the river,connect residents with their river, Portland granted permission to use twoCity docks. To put a boat on the water state and local ferry systems/grantprograms. Oregon doesn't. We Potomac Brisbane, AUS, RiverCatsLondon, Thames Clipper/UBER scarce resources, particularly fortransportation- this can be deployed
provide an efficient and cost-effectiveway to commute to work/school/medical necessitates $22M for the boat, dockupgrades, ticketing program, and received our 501(c)3 status from theIRS because we are doing the work that with a very low capex and opex. Thereare no rivers or rails to maintain, no
appt, and to have as a tool for firstresponders in the event of an marketing. To date an estimated $40Mhas been provided to derisk the project traditionally a public transit agencywould be doing. buildings to relocate. This is actually apretty easy task.
environmental disaster. for research (feasibility studies,demand modeling, propulsion studies,
etc.), planning (type of vessel, docklocations, Pilot Project), and community
engagement (we have broadcommunity support- particularly in the
communities where the pilot projectwould serve from St. Johns/Cathedral
Park and SW Downtown/RiverPlaceDock. In three years one 70-pax vessel
serving 5x per week, 12 hours per day...
Kerry Tymchuk 97008 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Actions needed to combat Oregon's reputation as "anti-business." Full court press along taxation, landuse, education, regulation reduction Oregon would be in top third ofbusiness-friendly states Governor, Legislature, localgovernments NA "One stop shopping" for businessesseeking to move or expand business. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Robert Guldberg 97405 Both University of Oregon KnightCampus for Accelerating Public Bioscience NA 101-500 people Tools for growth The state ranks near the bottom of the nation in support of its publicresearch universities. States that invest strongly in their R1 research Increase state support for universitiesin general to at least place Oregon in 1. An increase in the number ofsuccessful home grown startup All of the above. The Engineering TechnologySustaining Fund (ETSF) The University Georgia Research Alliance support ofeminent scholar recruitment, cutting Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Other states with a successfulbusiness climate have a public/private NA
Scientific Impact PenderiaTechnologies institutions spur economic growth and prosperity through bothentrepreneurial startup companies and workforce talent generation that is the middle of the rankings packnationally and specifically emphasize companies spinning out of ouruniversities and choosing to stay and Innovation Research Fund (UIRF) SBIRmatching funds edge equipment, and new startupcompanies. Public/private partnerships partnership as their agency forimplementation of economic
critical for retaining and attracting high wage existing jobs and companies. support for research and innovation(e.g. the University Innovation Research grow in Oregon. 2. An increase inOregon's competitiveness to attract and in Georgia, North Carolina, and otherstates to provide move in ready development strategies for the state.
Fund or UIRF). Based on the latesteconomic impact numbers for the retain existing companies to takeadvantage of the increased availability infrastructure for companies to co-locate near universities.
University of Oregon, the return oninvestment would be an estimated $15 of highly trained workforce. 3. Both ofthe above resulting in recognition of the
for every $1 invested. state of Oregon as a destinationsupporting economic prosperity and an
increase in high wage jobs, economicgrowth, and tax revenue.
Jody L. Stahancyk 97138/ 97754 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes Require every ballot measure musthave specific amounts intended to be The current situation of stock pillingmoney would cease and fewer open Legislature Frankly all of government needs to beretooled to adhere to measurable Look to the private sector notgovernment … tie positions at head to Yes Workforce NA Eliminate remote working. Setproduction result and outcome NA The resulting impartial standards wouldroot out those who do not meet the Legislation / total government NA In the late 70’s and early 80’ soutcomes were mandated to allow No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If all state holders put Oregon first wecan turn the ste arround but if the NA
raised and by law once the funds havebeen raised the tax is suspended until ended tax requsts outcomes. outcomes standards for every position which if notmet result in termination, probation or minimum standards. With current levelsof unemployment and training through continued funding for non profit grouphomes and the sky did not fall but well stakeholders continue their me firstattitudes … Oregon will continue to
amount spent. More specific criteriawithin ballot or by annculary law reeducation which is publically andtransparently open to all citizens. community colleges… next person upwill creat employment for those who put organized programs got the fundingand the other faded into the sunset decline.. the issues are not solved bythrowing money at them, having another
regarding all ballot measures or taxesleved Oregon first. meeting but defining needed outcomesand tying the funds to the results not
dumbing down or hoping somethingmight work….results results results
Craig Pesti-Strobel 97846 Both Joseph Main Street, part ofthe Wallowa County Rural Non-profit Business andProfessional Downtownand 1 - 20 people Tools for growth In communities heavily dependent upon tourism, there is a need to assistcommunities with developing local infrastructure and community-wide Provide funding through Oregon MainStreet and other grants for communities Communities would have a variety ofincome streams balancing local and State and federal legislatures andagencies need to prioritize livability and Oregon Main Street, Fish and Wildlife,Arts and Culture initiatives and States that have a progressive wealthtax; robust arts and culture programs No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA When talking about prosperity, it is vitalto understand the interconnections NA
Regional Main Street, part ofthe Oregon Main Street Services CommunityDevelopmen visions and plans to develop a year-round sustainable economic base.This includes helping bring diverse small-business owners together with to bring in process-leaders to assistthose communities in designing outside sources, employment will besteady at livable wage levels, holistic quality of life, provide fundingand leadership to assist local agencies (Cultural Trust, OregonHumanities, etc.), higher education, that vigorously incorporate and centerindigenous communities and cultures; between ecological/environmentalhealth, social equality and equity,
program. t; Arts andCultural local governments and Main Street organizations to expand their vision anddevelop working procedures to research tourism trends and attract a wide systems and infrastructuresappropriate to their size and culture that businesses will generate appropriateprofit levels which will be channeled communities (cities, non-profits, artsand culture groups, etc.) in designing Oregon Department of Forestry,Recreation and Tourism agencies and diversity of voices that cooperate ratherthan compete. Look at Hawaii, human creativity and aestheticexpression, freedom from want and
District diversity of persons who will contribute to the local economy in sustainableways. will help them to thrive holistically andsustainably. into improvements and communityevents and causes, and the local systems of economic and socialinterchange that are derived from the initiatives Massachusetts, and even Minnesota. freedom of self-expression, spiritualexploration and aspiration, and the
natural environment will be preservedfor the benefit of all. communities themselves, rather thanimposed from higher governmental establishment of interconnectedaccountability and problem-solving
levels. structures. Prosperity must not b emeasured in monetary terms alone, but
must include quality of life, theunfettered ability to achieve latent
potentials and possibilities, andreciprocal embeddedness in natural
systems.
Derek Tonn 97420 Both Southwestern Oregon SBDC Public Business andProfessional Education 1 - 20 people Business climate At least in our region of the state? Residents seem to either be stuck in thepast or struggle with an "inferiority complex." When we lost a lot of what I would love to work with rural Oregoncommunities, counties and business Several success stories from locals (or"imports" from other areas of the This could be done with severalcreative, motivated individuals who Business Oregon's RegionalDevelopment Officers do a good job of None come to mind. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We need to become a LOT better atdoing more with less as a society. NA
Services made us strong with the timber industry, it deeply harmed our region'spsyche. And that "glass is half empty" view of the region (by locals) owners to explore opportunities toadopt more of a "frugal innovation" state/country) coming up with ideas forinnovative products that will reduce the effectively inspire action in others. Thework could be accomplished much, supporting regional economicdevelopment, along with various From natural resources to tax dollars!Grants don't solve problems for a lot of
accelerates the downward spiral that we've been stuck in for decades.When I relocated from Minnesota for work, I had several locals ask: "Why mindset to solve regional challengesas it relates to developing new products amount of resources consumed to offerthe exact same quality of life (if not MUCH faster (with larger impact) withthe support of legislature, Governor's grant/loan programs and global tradeassistance. I would be remiss if I didn't organizations...they just kick the biggerproblem down the road, delaying it
would you want to come here?" I replied: "Why WOULDN'T I want to comehere?!" We live in paradise, from the perspective of climate and natural and technologies that will help ruralareas "do more with less." Less better). Products that thosebusinesses can then "export" to other Office, larger public/private partners(educational institutions, also mention how Small BusinessDevelopment Centers and other needing to be fixed. We need to teachmore business owners the information
beauty. But when locals wonder and ask why anyone would want tolive/work here? That is "kryptonine" when trying to work on new business electricity consumed. Less dataconsumed. Less materials used for states or countries, importing newdollars into Oregon that can cities/counties, large employers), etc.But if you find the right participants, and technical service providers (i.e. CCDBusiness Development Corporation in and techniques needed to not requiregrants to survive! We also need to
recruitment. packaging and shipping. Improved fuelefficiency. Et al. subsequently be used to offer moreservices and amenities to residents public officials give it the exposure, limit"red tape," and effectively publicize Coos, Curry and Douglas Counties) arevital to the economic health of our state teach more business owners how theyneed to pay both their current and
and business owners. access to funds which already exist invarious grant/loan programs? It could as well. FUTURE selves. Too many businessowners enter their 40s, 50s, even 60s
be a new opportunity to get numeroussmaller businesses in traded sectors with nothing but (maybe) social securityto live on when they retire. Not to
off the ground. mention their employees not makingenough to have in retirement. And
when all those individuals can nolonger work, what happens to them and
the communities they call home?
Scott Steward 74014 Organization/Business Florence Area Chamber ofCommerce Public Business andProfessional NA 1000+ people Business climate Reducing taxes and fees on businesses and individuals to they canspend/invest as they see fit. They know far better than government what Cement transient lodging tax income sothat it cannot be diverted to anything but A booming tourism business on theOregon Coast all year long. Funding of Maybe the better question is, "Who hasto get out of the way for this to happen?" Travel Oregon, Travel Lane County,Oregon Coast Visitor's Association, etc. Less regulation and restriction fromgovernment like there is in Oklahoma, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As tourism is allowed to grow, the needfor individuals and nonprofits to open NA
Services works/advances their industries. Similarly, I want to see government bodiesstop trying to steal transient lodging tax income for anything other than what tourism. Reducing tax and fee burdenon businesses, especially tourism Destination Management/MarketingOrganizations so they can market Stop over legislating and grubbing forthe next "creative" way to raise money where I currently live. Note: my bestclients are in Oregon where I grew up childcare services that support tourismemployees will also grow--as will the
it was established--tourism and its growth! Tourism is Oregon's thirdlargest industry and should not be micromanaged by government. businesses. beyond Oregon for tourism. for state coffers. Let TLT funds do whatthey're meant to do. Let Travel Oregon and lived most of my life. I'm a fifthgeneration Oregonian. need for affordable (minimum wage-level--housing.
run free to advertise during theOlympics, Grammys, Super Bowl,
national primetime TV, and the topstreaming services.
tim campbell 97401 Both Commercial Real Estate Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Barriers to Entry for companies wanting to grow or locate here. Thepermitting process being too encumbered, as well as the regulatory layers change policies, become "businessfriendly", Instead of "can't or "won't", increase in small business confidence,increase in jobs, increase in tax base. State, legislature, and localgovernments. Start delivering a positive We do not have anything that can becompetitive with other states right now. Focus behind campus tech centers,shovel ready dirt (before companies No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services for the same thing (wetlands as an example. there should be one agencyhoop, not three). make it "how can we make this happen" message. The programs we do have are veryminer to other communities that are need it) up and down I-5. promotedowntown office locations making it fun
business friendly. for companies to open downtown. Avertical tax base is a lot more rewarding
to the state and cities than a sprawlingone.
Mark Gregory 97439 Both Oregon Small BusinessDevelopment Center Public Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Tools for growth Connecting Oregon's small businesses to both market research to supportbusiness growth and information about state and federal programs that A statewide portal, perhaps AI-driven,that can support business access to A business ecosystem in Oregon thatwas fully aware of both technical Our Small Business DevelopmentCenters are a front line to both technical Business Oregon's support of bothfinancing programs and technical See the Klamath Falls ResourceNavigator Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Network Services can help their businesses remains a critical focus. both business technical assistance,business research platforms, and state assistance and financial programsavailable to them in Oregon would be a assistance and, in many cases, stateand federal programs that support assistance providers is a criticalinvestment that needs to be expanded https://www.klamathidea.org/resources/Utilized through the Klamath IDEA in
and federal financial resources forsmall businesses would be extremely measure of success. small business. An online ecosystemsupport tool (Such as Sourcelink) and continued. Klamath Falls
valuable. supported by Business Oregon wouldgreatly help both businesses and small
business support partners to leveragebusiness resources.
Jeff Knapp 97703 Both Visit Bend Non-profit NA Tourismand 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon's CAT tax and high-income tax, coupled with land use, have uscurrently sitting as one of the least friendly states to do business in. We I would revisit the CAT tax, look atgeneral tax reform to potentially lower Success would be retention of andpotential expansion of current This would require a collaborative planand effort lead by the Governor and Protection of local transient lodging tax.Transient lodging tax is essentially the NA Yes NA Hospitality and Tourism NotBeing Part of the Strategy I would like the Council to considerlooking at the economic development I would like to see Hospitality andTourism represented in the strategic More alignment of efforts, resources,and goals would allow us to move This will require top down priorities andcollaboration between state agencies, NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I think the solutions to our economicand social challenges are going to take NA
Hospitality need a strong economy to help balance growing social needs and helpcities and counties fund essential services as property taxes through income tax, and add a sales tax. businesses in Oregon and a gameplan to attract new businesses with Legislature, working collaboratively withlocal and regional industry and only "sales tax" that we have. It is aneconomic engine and investment. We partners and structures around thestate. Hospitality and tourism are not state plan and industry representationat regional workforce boards. We need larger impacts forward in a collaborativemanner. i.e. Business Oregon, Travel Oregon,Regional Workforce Boards and down our leaders to recognize that withoutsome serious changes to our taxing
measure 5 and 50 limit levers to pull to address growing costs and needs. some incentives around specificsectors. workforce boards and economicdevelopment agencies. need to find other funding sources toaddress the challenges facing Oregon equitably represented in plans andworkforce boards around the state. the voices, data, and networksrepresented to allow us to be part of the the line. structures and policies any plans willbe a small band-aid on a growing
and protect the limited investments thatwe have that is actually fueling one of This disconnect from the top-downmakes it very difficult to be part of the solution. issue. We cannot continue to buildbarriers to business in Oregon and
only two sectors in Oregon that iscurrently growing in both wages and collective solutions. Hospitality andTourism are not given a seat as other expect to have the revenues andsolutions to the increasing funding and
jobs. traded sectors currently are. Thepositive impacts of H&T industry are affordability challenges facing our State.We need balance. Right now we are
not critical from a revenue and jobsperspective, they are key recruiting and extremely unbalanced.
retention tools for the larger economiclandscape. They are the largest
opportunity sector for gaining essentialworkforce skills with one of the lowest
barriers to entry.
Cheri Martinen 97739 Both Bancorp Insurance Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate it is hard to be an employer here, the taxes, employee rules and regulationsdont even get me started on building retail space to run your business out of less rules, make it financialy possiableto open and run a small business more businesses opened with betterhigh wage jobs for all of us all of the above NA just dont copy CA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA education is so important to the workforce. Make sure we are spending NA
Services enough on the kids and next gen. alsomake having a baby affordable. right
now there are more deaths inDeschutes county than births...that
means we are not replacing ourselfs.
Ashley Espinoza 97401 Both Lane WorkforcePartnership. One of the Nine Non-profit NA All 1 - 20 people Workforce A significant challenge remains the gap between statewide priorities andlocal implementation. Stronger executive-level oversight and more active Consider separating workforcefunctions into a dedicated agency rather Success would include clearergovernance and accountability for Governor Prosperity 10,000 Denver, Colorado offers a strongexample of effective alignment between No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The public workforce infrastructure isalready in place. Faster progress WSO%20Operational%20Standards%202023.pdf
Workforce Boards collaboration across agencies would help ensure alignment, reduceduplication, and accelerate results for communities and employers. than housing them within HECC. Whilepartnership across education and workforce efforts, stronger cross-agency collaboration, and improved use local, state partners andemployers/industry in developing, depends on senior leadershipempowering staff to innovate and
workforce remains critical, the currentstructure can create confusion in of data to guide decisions andinvestments. Local communities and investing in, and implementingworkforce strategies. Texas also providing flexibility to meet peoplewhere they are, enabling services to
accountability, contracting, and datamanagement. Too often, data and employers would experience faster,more coordinated responses to demonstrates promising approaches,though their impact is supported by respond more effectively to realcommunity and employer needs.
contract functions are managed bygeneralists, limiting our ability to workforce needs, and opportunity talentwould be met where they are through comparatively larger childcareinvestments. https://worksystems.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/WSOCoreSyst
generate actionable insights thatsupport continuous improvement in a more accessible, flexible, and user-centered services. It would also require emDefinitionFinal.pdf
responsive and timely. A dedicatedworkforce agency could improve clarity, a greater willingness to adopttechnology and innovation, reducing
oversight, and performance outcomeswhile still maintaining strong cross- risk aversion in order to improve servicedelivery, access, and overall user
sector partnerships. experience for both employers andjobseekers.
Scott Cooper 97756 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon's is badly overregulating its labor force to the detriment ofbusiness. State-imposed restrictions are artificially constricting workforce The Prosperity Council should reviewOregon's laws that pertain to hiring and Oregon employers would be able torecruit medical and education Legislature and BOLI PLO has many good features,especially those that support parenting. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
supply and raising wages. Oregon's standards for recruiting doctors,nurses and teachers are the most stringent in the nation and add make revisions as necessary to allowlabor to move across state lines with professionals from other states aseasily as they can recruit those same SAIF is a benefit to employers.
significant time and effort to any effort to hire. Requiring a license to braidhair is overkill. The use of Paid Leave Oregon to fund mental health minimal restriction. The legislatureshould reform PLO based on lessons professionals based on Oregon.Unnecessary restrictions (hair braiding)
conditions is crippling. Allowing use of Paid Leave Oregon for intermittentleave makes scheduling of workers almost impossible. Oregon needs learned to balance legitimate employeeneeds (paid maternity leave, time off for would be removed. PLO would bufferworkers from economic consequences
employers and employers need reliable workers. surgical recovery, etc) with employerneeds for stable, predictable workforce. of unavoidable health conditions andpregnancy while also not limiting the
ability of employers to hire, retain andschedule workers in a predictable way.
John C. Renstrom 97701 Both Johnson benefit Planning Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Cost that Commercial Customers pay for Group Health Insurance Audit the OHP. While going back to theOregon Medical Insurance Pool Reduced Group insurance rates soemployers can still afford to insure the Governor's Office, Employers,Providers. How the heck does it cost Crickets The ACA was adopted by paraphrasingthe Oregon OMIP plan. go back to it. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Too many larger companies leaving thestate. How many refineries are still NA
Services vast majority of Oregonians. 200 dollars for a 15 min Primary Carevisit? Way too much emphasis on OHP whichis cost shifting to the commercial operating in the State of Oregon? Howmuch does it cost tax payers to have oil
Scott Cooper 97756 Both NeighborImpact Non-profit NA Human 101-500 people Workforce The state's childcare system is misaligned with employee needs. The state's primary investment in Dedicated funding to increase hours Legislature would be needed for new The ERDC and Baby Promise market.No state is doing more in childcare and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA transported from out of State?NA NA
Services childcare is through preschoolinvestment. Oregon funds preschool for and length of school year for the 20,000preschool children would be in place. appropriation. DHS and DELC could puttogether a (likely clunky) program programs are critical resources toenable employment. The Oregon PreK preschool support than Oregon, butOregon is not doing enough.
about 20,000 children--9,000 HeadStart, 9000 Oregon PreK and 2000 Early Such funding might be new revenue ormight be a combination of Employment pairing existing ERDC and DELCfunding. Individual preschool providers and Preschool Promise Programs areimperfect (not enough hours) but better
Head Start. These programs are highlysuccessful but they are education Related Daycare and DELC funding.One source of partial funding would be and Childcare Resource centers andEarly Learning HUBS would have to than nothing.
focused, not childcare focused. Workingfamilies need childcare 7 am to 6 pm to for DELC to redirect efforts to boostwages for childcare workers to duration cooperate.
allow them to fully participate in thelabor force. Preschool operates 8-3:30 of care investments.
and not in summer. Funding thosemissing hours is low-hanging fruit.
Jordan Pape 97401-2119 Organization/Business The Pape Group, Inc. Private Metals andMachinery NA 1000+ people Business climate State regulations, specifically land use and employment. Oregon is the 7thmost heavily regulated states. Taxes, the average state tax burden is less Oregon is one of only 3 states withstatewide zoning, urban growth Manufacturing and Trade Sectoremployers begin building advanced Oregon needs to reprioritize it's narrowfocus from only focusing on issues It is becoming increasingly hard to findthings that Oregon is doing better than Mississippi and Louisiana are showingpromising trends in education Yes Workforce NA The Quality Education Model has beencorrupted over the years. We have We should have a K-12 council that isnot over-weight in insiders with School district consolidation12 budget that reflects student A state K- Legislature and Governor. NA NAEP progress - Mississippi andLouisiana Higher Education - North Yes Tools for growth We do not have an effective stateeconomic development commission Overhaul Business Oregon OR scrapBusiness Oregon and develop a new An economic developmentcommission, with public/private Legislature, Governor -0- Arizona is doing an incredible job ofconvincing people to move to a No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon has geographic, resource, andclimate advantages. We should be an Combined%20mojo%20scorecard%20-%20QR%20code.pdf
than Oregon's, giving companies and their executive leaders economicreasons to leave for other states. boundary, and environmental overlaysin addition to federal EPA regulations. manufacturing facilities and filling officespace in underutilized office buildings. impacting about 0.6% of our populationto focusing primarily on issues that peer states. We need to continueproviding essential services including attainment - which leads to greaterworkforce preparedness. Arizona, loaded the effort with insiders who haveembedded conflicts of interest and the conflicts, we should have a council thatincludes intelligent arms length populations. If student population isdeclining, funding should be flowing to Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee economic development commissionthat is similar to Arizona. aspects (similar to Arizona and NorthCarolina) that has national and global sweltering desert. We have a clearlivability advantage, we should leverage economic powerhouse. Our obstaclesto a robust economy with fulfilling
Any company can go to 47 other statesand have greater confidence that they Cranes return to Oregon to showprogress in investment. Hubs of enhance the livability for the 99.4% ofthe population. By doing so, we will robust education, transportation, and asafety net for the least fortunate. North Carolina, Idaho and Tennesseeare driving superior economic results are consistent demands formore tax resources while our K-12 members that have experience runninglarge, complicated systems. The areas (like higher education oreconomic development) that will create recruiting offices and is tasked withreducing development times and it. careers for our children is only limitedby inefficient government services,
can buy land and build withoutencountering multiple layers of land economic activity, expanding onOregon's historical areas of excellence increase our economy, improveemployment and incomes, thus However, none of these service areasis in any way a model that other states development and growth with far fewerimbedded natural resources or better system has plummeted to one of theworst in the country. replacement oversight task forceshould be tasked with comparing a positive feedback loop for the state.Statewide teacher wage tables tied to overcoming regulations that pushinvestment to other states. regulations and tax burdens we havecreated. The best news is that we have
and environmental regulationsdesigned to stop their project. We have in semiconductors, wood products,specialty materials, food manufacturing, increasing our tax base and be able toprovide the safety net services needed would follow. If you're not leading, youshould be learning, adopting, changing geographic advantages.continues to try to forge alliances with Oregon Oregon's K-12 system to others statesto root out inefficient uses of funds, biennial budgets, derived by applyingintended student teacher ratios, the ability to remove our greatestbarriers to upward mobility, where many
to give investors greater clarity that wewill make space for them and welcome and new leading edge sectorsincluding robotics, Ai, and life sciences to help our least fortunate. But, we can'tdo it by focusing solely on those issues, strategies and structurally overhaulingfailed systems. California and Washington. If we wantto be more like Washington - drop the excise programs that were started withoptimism but failed to deliver intended adjusting total budget available forteacher compensation by removing states do not have the sameadvantages. The Prosperity Council
their jobs. We should either eliminatethe Urban Growth Boundaries as a relic begin to show significant employmentgrowth. we have to do it by driving growth andemployment, reducing the percentage income tax. California's economicmalaise should convince us not to results, and advocate for students andenhancing math, science and reading benefits teachers have bargained for -leaving a balance available for teacher simply needs to remove human errorand regulations designed for a past
of a population boom that is no longer athreat or we should eliminate additional of GSP required to provide a propersafety net. follow their lead. They're squanderingthe economic advantages they once outcomes.K-12 investments, we should focus on If we are more efficient with salaries - that are then adjusted basedon experience and cost of living. generation to open the door to a moreprosperous future. The easy part is
regulations that encumber land once acity has gone through its democratic had that drew the best and brightestfrom around the world. shifting funding so that we are a topquartile investor in Higher Education Universities with expanded funding, aninvestment that will attract employers, comparing our state to others that aremore successful. The hard part is
process of bringing land inside theurban growth boundary and declaring rather than being a state with thatprovides among the lowest higher investment, and bring more families tothe state, helping to fix declining changing systems that Oregonianshave lived with (even if we've grown
the land's zoning.using the state government to We have to stop education funding. enrollment in K-12. accustomed to an abusive system thathas delivered below average incomes
implement the most extreme labordemands. Prevailing wage regulations, with higher than average livingexpenses).
especially those that force prevailingwage on any parcel of land that has
received funding from the government(including simple land and utility
readiness) are driving up project costs,which drives away investment -
ultimately reducing jobs instead ofraising wages. We need to repeal
Taylor Rembowski 97918 Both Malheur County Economic Public Business and NA 1 - 20 people Business climate CAT Tax and Industrial Infrastructure Readiness anti-business legislation, like using ourunemployment reserves to pay forLower Taxes to boost economy. Add Seeing new business come back to Legislature. Stop adding taxes Business Oregon NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Development ProfessionalServices funds for industrial sites that we deemare worthy of the infrastructure Oregon vs watching businesses leaveOregon
Jennifer Crockett 97103 Both I am the Executive Director Non-profit NA Arts and 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon’s arts and culture sector, particularly in our rural community, lacks investment.Establish a dedicated, recurring state Success would include: State arts Oregon Legislature to increase and Oregon Arts Commission grant Colorado’s Scientific and Cultural No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I appreciate that the Prosperity Council NA
of the historic LibertyTheatre in Astoria, as well Culture predictable and stable public investment despite its measurable economicimpact. At the Liberty Theatre in Astoria, less than 1 percent of our investment in arts and culturalinfrastructure, particularly for rural investment increased to a meaningfulpercentage of operating support for stabilize arts funding and create ruralcultural infrastructure programs. programs.incentive.  Travel Oregon’s recognitionCultural Trust tax credit Facilities District, a dedicated regionalsales tax supporting arts and culture is asking these questions and invitinginput from communities across Oregon.
as a professional clarinetistwith the Oregon Symphony. I operating budget comes from state funding. Clatsop County has nodedicated arts budget or functioning arts council. The City of Astoria communities, tied to demonstratedeconomic impact. Create a Rural rural anchor institutions.of arts organizations as formal Recognition Governor’s Office and ProsperityCouncil to explicitly include arts and of arts as tourism drivers.Oregon’s support for rural economic Business institutions with predictable funding.Minnesota’s Legacy Amendment, which That willingness to listen is important.I encourage the Council to recognize
also sit on the Board ofDirectors for the national provides approximately 1 percent of our operating support through acompetitive tourism-based grant. Yet the Liberty Theatre functions as a Cultural Anchor Fund to supportorganizations that drive tourism and contributors to Oregon’s economicdevelopment strategy. Stabilized or culture in economic development policy.Business Oregon and Travel Oregon development.valuable but under-scaled relative to the These programs are provides constitutionally dedicatedfunding for arts and cultural heritage. rural arts and culture organizations asessential economic infrastructure. In
League of Historic AmericanTheatres. regional economic engine. Nearly 50 percent of our audience travels fromthe Portland metro area, generating approximately $1.5 million in direct serve as downtown economic engines.Modernize state economic growing attendance following currentindustry declines. Reestablishment or to align economic impact strategy withcultural tourism investment. Local economic contribution of the sector. Massachusetts Cultural Facilities Fund,a capital investment program small communities, historic theatersfunction as downtown anchors, tourism
economic impact annually to our small downtown through lodging, dining,and retail spending. The core friction point is that Oregon’s business development policy to formallyrecognize arts and culture as part of creation of functioning arts councils inrural counties such as Clatsop. governments to develop matchingfunds or regional arts infrastructure. recognizing cultural infrastructure aseconomic infrastructure. Washington drivers, workforce attractors, and youthengagement hubs. When they are
climate does not currently recognize arts and culture infrastructure aseconomic infrastructure. Cultural institutions are treated as optional Oregon’s economic developmentstrategy, aligning Business Oregon, Measurable growth in downtowneconomic activity tied to cultural Oregon Arts Commission to administerexpanded and modernized funding State’s Building for the Arts program,which provides state capital support for stable, surrounding businessesbenefit. When they struggle, the
amenities rather than core drivers of tourism, workforce attraction, smallbusiness vitality, and community identity. In addition, the historic theater Travel Oregon, and the Oregon ArtsCommission around shared metrics. tourism.focus on programming, workforce Arts organizations able to streams.will also be essential. Public-private partnerships nonprofit cultural facilities.models demonstrate that sustained These economic ripple effects are significant.With nearly 30 years of experience as a
industry is experiencing a sustained 30 percent decline in ticket sales dueto economic insecurity and changing consumer behavior. The Liberty Provide stabilization fundingmechanisms, similar to small development, and community servicerather than crisis fundraising. In structural investment producesmeasurable economic returns, professional musician, advocate, andnonprofit leader, I have seen how
Theatre is experiencing this same trend. Unlike many industries, artsorganizations operate on thin margins and lack stabilization mechanisms business stabilization funds, to helpnonprofit cultural employers weather practical terms, success would meaninstitutions like the Liberty Theatre stabilizes employers, and strengthenstourism and workforce attraction. creative economies strengthen civicidentity, attract talent, and support
during downturns. Without structural investment, rural arts institutions facecontraction at precisely the moment when communities need economic economic downturns.regional arts infrastructure, including Support operating with stability rather thanprecarity, enabling us to expand entrepreneurship. Quality of life is aneconomic driver, and arts organizations
diversification. incentives or seed funding toreestablish arts councils in counties programming, education, and tourismimpact. are central to that equation.communities do not have the Rural
without them, creating local cohorts andadministrative support networks. philanthropic density of urban areas.Sustainable prosperity requires a
These changes would move artsorganizations from surviving year to year balanced partnership between stateinvestment, local support, and private
toward functioning as reliable economicpartners. giving.contribute to this conversation. Thank you for the opportunity to
Megan De Salvo 97223 Organization/Business Tigard Area Chamber ofCommerce and I am a local Non-profit Technology Non-Profitand My 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon has extraordinary advantages! We have the talent, naturalresources, innovation, quality of life everyone dreams of. However, our Oregon’s tax system is complex,layered, and punitive to growth. We SHOP OREGON BUSINESSES FIRSTin EVERY level of Government! Legislature and Regional and LocalGovernment Partners and bring your There are several Oregon programsthat are working and should be Texas has emerged as one of the topstates for business, largely due to its No Workforce NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Tigard Area Chamber ofCommerce wants to be as helpful to the NA
Small Business Owner aswell SmallBusiness is current tax structure, regulatory environment, and cost burdens are makingit increasingly difficult for businesses of all sizes to grow, invest, and urge the Council to:eliminate duplicative gross receipts Reform or Oregon moves into the top half ofwestern states for business tax Chambers to the table as they know theneeds of local business! We need preserved and strengthened:Statewide tourism funding through low tax burden (no corporate orpersonal income tax) and strategic Prosperity Council as possible. Ourcollective futures depend on it. We
a TechCompany provide family-wage jobs. Small businesses are dying, businesses aremoving at an alarming rate, we need action now. taxation (including the Corporate ActivityTax structure impacts on supply competitiveness.outmigration stabilizes or reverses. Net business PRO Business support programs inevery County and City in our State! Travel Oregon! Dedicated lodging taxdollars that drive visitor demand incentive portfolio, including competitivedeal-closing and recruitment funds. remain hopeful that there will be BOLDaction taken. We also know it will not
chains).burden to improve regional Lower overall business tax Employers are expanding in-stateinstead of relocating. Oregon is generate measurable economic returnfor communities across the state. This approach shows how a tax-competitive environment paired with happen overnight. In closing, pleasekeep these top of mind: Tax
competitiveness with Idaho,Washington, Nevada, and Utah. viewed as predictable and pro-growthand not high-risk. Business owners Protecting these funds is critical andmaking sure they remain spent here targeted incentives can attractinvestment and corporate relocations. competitiveness plus targetedincentives to drive business attraction
Create tiered relief for small and mid-sized employers. Incentivize should say:it’s worth it.” Right now, too many are “Oregon is expensive but locally is a MUST. Use Chambers tohelp with this as these dollars are not Georgia’s nationally-recognizedworkforce development program “Quick and expansion.workforce training that is nationally Employer-aligned
reinvestment into payroll, capitalimprovements, and workforce training. saying the opposite.Sustain Family-Wage Jobs Employers Can Success always staying local and are blown onconsultants. Chambers could be great Start” provides customized training fornew and expanding employers at no recognized and responsive.Structured business advisory councils
Provide multi-year tax certainty sobusinesses can forecast and plan. means:productivity not just mandated Real wage growth tied to consultants of local talent.development and CTE investments with Workforce cost, helping fill talent gaps efficiently.It’s a best-practice model for aligning integrated with state leadership thatinclude local Chambers of Commerce
Businesses cannot sustainably providefamily-wage jobs when tax policy increases.pressures (insurance, compliance, tax Lower employer-side cost Industry-aligned training,apprenticeships, and community workforce pipelines with industryneeds. The Florida Council of 100 is a and Small and Medium sizedbusinesses at the table with our Large
penalizes revenue instead of profit.Oregon’s rising costs — insurance, stacking).hiring due to uncertainty. Fewer businesses freezing More mid- college partnerships are essential tobuilding sustainable, family-wage private, non-partisan group of businessleaders that began through Chambers Employers as it is a very differentexperience and we need them all to
energy, compliance, labor mandates,permitting delays — are squeezing sized employers (25–250 employees)scaling up. If businesses can’t build career pathways.Development Centers (SBDCs) and Small Business of Commerce that advises the Governorand policymakers on economic and thrive.and incubation programs that help Chamber-led entrepreneurship
employers.include: Regulatory streamlining and Focus areas should margin, they can’t build wages.Businesses can forecast regulatory and Business Oregon tools – Theseprograms provide technical assistance quality-of-life priorities.demonstrates a structured way for It scale local firms. Every Chamber canand should be a business hub for their
timeline guarantees for permitting.Workers’ compensation and liability tax impact with confidence. TAXREFORM! Major economic policies and financing that help small and mid-sized employers start, stabilize, and business leaders to influence statepolicy beyond traditional lobbying communities it all comes down tofunds. Public-private economic
reform to reduce insurance premiums.Energy reliability and cost predictability. include formal competitivenessreviews. Legislative sessions grow.infrastructure programs that include Economic development bringing strategic planning and data tostatewide decision-making. The partnerships that align business needswith city/county/state actions. Thank
communication to eliminate redundantCoordinated state agency produce fewer surprise cost increases.No NEW Taxes after REFORM! Industrial land readiness andinfrastructure grants are foundational to Louisiana Business & TechnologyCenter, partnered with the Greater you for your time and for the outreach!
reporting.matter just as much as cost. Predictability and speed Tourism Stability is prosperity infrastructure.Meaningful increase in available attracting and retaining investment.Enterprise Zones, these attract and Baton Rouge Chamber, providesbusiness incubation, technical
promotion drives local economies,especially in communities like Tigard industrial land.timelines. Measurable housing starts Accelerated permitting retain major investments.some very strong tools in place. What Oregon has assistance, and entrepreneurshiptraining including mobile outreach. Its
