June 8, 2026
Governor Tina Kotek
900 Court Street NE
Salem, OR 97301
Prosperity Council Co-Chairs Renée James and Curtis Robinhold
Members of the Oregon Prosperity Council
RE: The Prosperity Council’s Final Recommendations
Dear Governor Kotek, Co-Chairs James and Robinhold, and members of the Oregon Prosperity Council:
We understand the Prosperity Council is considering draft recommendations to improve the Oregon economy.
We are aware that these recommendations may change and are not final. As a result, Tax Fairness Oregon
would like to offer our opinion in the hope that it might modify the final result.
We agree with the goal of improving the growth in the Oregon economy. It has been underperforming in
comparison with other states since the start of the pandemic and the damaging protests in Portland in 2020.
Commercial property values in Portland have suffered, reducing revenues needed to support the city and the
county. The state is suffering from federal funding cutbacks and cannot support the needs of the citizens
without increasing revenue.
At the same time, we need to remember that over the longer term, Oregon has outpaced national growth and
some of the problems we face today are transitory and not based upon current state public policies. Portland
suffered from significant vandalism in 2020. The badly implemented attempt to legalize drugs caused
additional damage. Intel and Nike, our two largest companies, suffered major layoffs due to their internal
problems causing additional economic pain for the state from their local suppliers. Oregon’s trade dependent
and small business sectors are a bigger share of the national economy than in most states and were hurt by
national tariff and trade policies. Fortunately, the impact of these events is reversing and what has been a drag
on our economy is shifting to a more positive environment. The drug policy was reversed, vandalism and
crime overall are down sharply, Intel and Nike have stopped their bleeding and should begin adding
employment and the Supreme Court ended some of the tariffs.
Given this background, we agree with some of the recommendations, have concerns about some, and offer a
few we think are missing.
What we like
• Elevating economic development priorities within the executive branch makes sense. We recognize
that Oregon is in a serious competition for beneficial growth. Competing means having a clear idea of
what benefits Oregonians, a deep knowledge of business conditions, and the flexibility to act when
conditions are right.
• Implementing a sales tax would allow us to reduce income taxes to make our tax structure more like
other states. However, the total package must remain at least as progressive as it is today to retain our
support. California, which has a significant sales tax, also has a more progressive tax system overall
than Oregon, showing that adding a sales tax does not necessarily create a regressive system.
• Establishing a process to systematically reduce regulations that are counterproductive. Announcing a
goal is easy. Establishing a process to continuously review and eliminate low value regulations is the
hard part.
We read the bills and follow the money
