Oregon's High Road Economic Strategy
Outline
Qs- Does the Council have clear agreement on what constitutes economic
prosperity? Is it focused on making life better for Oregonians?
Take the High Road: Quality Over Quantity
1. Goal: Raise per capita income for all Oregonians — not total GDP or job count
1.1 Per capita income is the best single measure of economic success
1.2 Must be paired with measures of distribution — especially wages at the bottom and middle
2. Two strategies: High Road vs. Low Road
2.1 High road: high skills, high wages, high productivity, high innovation
2.2. High road: helping businesses be more productive and grow vs. luring them in through tax
breaks (support quality education and training, great quality of life, predicable and efficient
regulation (without surrendering health, safety and environmental goals)
2.3 Low road: cut taxes, slash services, compete on cost with Alabama, India, Mexico
2.4 Low road is a trap — grows the economy temporarily but doesn't improve lives; undermines
assets needed for long-run growth
Education: The Single Most Powerful Economic Lever
1. College attainment explains ~70% of income variation across states
1.1 No other factor comes close
1.2 Nobel economist Philippe Aghion: states that invest in higher education saw significantly
faster growth
2. Oregon's unrealized 40/40/20 vision
2.1 Oregon Business Plan (2007): 40% bachelor's degree, 40% associate's degree, 20% high
school diploma (“Low-paying jobs will not support families or the Oregon economy…All jobs
that pay well increasingly require higher levels of education and work readiness.”)
2.2 Oregon Legislature adopted the 40/40/20 vision as official state policy in 2011 (ORS 350.014)
2.3 Oregon is falling short, especially for people of color
2.4 Incomes would be higher today had we achieved this goal
3. Continuum of education investments
3.1 Pre-K/Preschool for All: high returns especially for disadvantaged kids; attracts young
families; provides affordability for low- and middle-income families
3.2 Training/Apprenticeship:
Expand high school and workplace “earn to learn” programs
Reskilling and continuous upskilling to embrace AI and other industry shocks
3.3 Challenges facing the American workforce require a talent strategy that focuses on
education and training (Bipartisan Policy Center, “A Nation at Risk to A Nation at Work,”
2026)
1
