FOCUS
Business Climate
Taxes
Background and Problem Statement
Oregon’s tax structure must be competitive to attract, retain, and support high-wage job growth. It is one driver,
among several, that are critical in creating an environment where workers and employers can thrive and where the
economy can prosper. Small and medium-sized businesses are particularly affected by compliance complexity and
layered local tax burdens, including income, business, property, and special-purpose taxes, which together create
uncertainty and increase the cost of investment. The current state tax structure places a higher burden on middle-
income households than all of our neighboring states. This structure underpins the state’s lack of competitiveness
and limits its ability to balance budgets, sustain essential public services, and invest in long-term economic growth.
Under current state and local tax structures, including income and sales taxes but excluding property taxes, a single
1
filer earning $40,000 in Oregon faces an effective tax rate of 20.4%, compared to 18.4% in Washington and 19.9%
in California. Similarly, a household earning $80,000 has an effective tax rate of 17.6% in Oregon, compared to
2
16.0% in Washington and 17.0% in California. These differences demonstrate that Oregon’s comparatively higher
tax burden is not limited to high-income earners; it affects households across the income spectrum. Even seemingly
small differences in effective tax rates can translate into meaningful annual costs for Oregon residents. When
combined with Oregon’s housing affordability challenges and other rising costs of living, these higher tax burdens
can further reduce disposable income and make it more difficult for households to achieve economic security and
upward mobility. See Appendix F for additional information.
EFFECTIVE TAX RATE: Single filer earning $40,000
% % %
20.4 18.4 19.9
OREGON WASHINGTON CALIFORNIA
Summary of Stakeholder Feedback
Stakeholders consistently identified Oregon’s tax structure as a barrier to business growth and competitiveness. They
noted that the combined impact of state and local taxes discourages business investment and growth, particularly
for small and mid-sized firms, a critical segment of the economy given that 97% of businesses employ fewer than
50 people and collectively support 52% of employment statewide. While the Corporate Activity Tax provides stable
revenue, its broad application across supply chains can create cumulative tax burdens, especially for traded-sector
1 The effective tax rate is the actual share of income, property value, or business activity that is paid in taxes after accounting for deductions, exemptions,
credits, and other tax rules.
2 See Appendix F for scenarios analyzing additional filing and earning characteristics to estimate effective tax rates including estimates of sales tax in
neighboring states.
- 17 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
