Elevate economic development as a core state priority
 Support HB 4084 and Governor Kotek’s Oregon Prosperity
Agenda: The Portland Metro Chamber and our partners strongly
support the Governor’s leadership in formally acknowledging the
need for change and stronger public-private partnership across the
state. Reversing Oregon’s downward economic trajectory will
require a focused, strategic policy approach that addresses the root
causes of our persistent economic barriers. The Governor’s
commitment to tangible change and engagement with the business
community is encouraging and necessary to ensure a vibrant
economic future for the Portland Metro Region and the entire State
of Oregon.
 Business Recruitment: Direct Business Oregon to use existing
strategic planning resources to develop and implement a
coordinated business recruitment plan with specific KPIs across the
state as a core part of the agency’s strategic plan for the coming
years. Align with local economic development plans such as the
Prosper Portland Advance Portland.
 Business Incentives: Support business incentives introduced in
2026 and work with key legislators and stakeholders to develop a
robust package of incentives for legislative adoption in early 2027.
State, regional, and local incentives should be coordinated and
aligned.
 Advanced Manufacturing: Support the regional advanced
manufacturing jobs legislation currently under development, which
will seek to expand the use of Research & Development Tax
Credits, establish a local option capital property tax holiday for
building or modernizing new advanced manufacturing facilities,
and adjust Enterprise Zone requirements.
 Opportunity Zone Designation: Work with the City of Portland to
secure designations of priority Opportunity Zones in Portland during
the required Gubernatorial Designation Process.
 Federal Tax Code: Preserve the full value of financial tools that
drive private investment in Portland.
Housing production and shelter
 Defend state investments in housing production, housing related
infrastructure, and shelter operations.
