5/28/26, 9:24 AM Fwd: OSU and the economic health and prosperity of Oregon - nester@econw.com - ECONorthwest Mail
From: Murthy, Jayathi Y <jayathi.murthy@oregonstate.edu>
Date: Wednesday, 13 May 2026 15:09
To: Lois Cho <admin@getchowines.com>
Cc: Fast, Katie <katie.fast@oregonstate.edu>
Subject: OSU and the economic health and prosperity of Oregon
Dear Lois,
I understand that Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Council is coming to the end of its deliberations. As it
prepares to release its findings, I thought it would be important to convey to you the strategies that
OSU feels would be most beneficial for the economic development of the state of Oregon.
First, let me say that the economic health and prosperity of Oregon is critical to the success and future
of Oregon State University. OSU not only wants but believes it is critical that we be a coordinated part
of Oregon’s economic development strategy. We have observed that states with robust business
climates designate universities as active partners. We are eager to assist in development of strategies
and/or new business and retention efforts.
I list below the strategies that OSU considers to be most important for workforce and economic
development:
1. Sustain public university budgets for the benefit of Oregon students
Approximately 85% of personal income tax revenue is paid by those with bachelor’s degrees
or higher. Affordability is the biggest hindrance facing potential university students. Oregon
public universities have the highest tuition in the western region due to low state investment
th
(46 in the nation) and higher than industry benefits costs. Addressing these challenges will
directly impact students’ ability to access a four-year degree. Accordingly, Oregon
Should invest in the entire education continuum, including K12, community colleges, and
public universities.
Assist universities through policies and/or investments to assist with the growing
employee benefit costs that are outside of the universities control.
2. Develop workforce-aligned investment pools
Industry surveys consistently rank access to a skilled and educated workforce as the top factor
in site selection for large, high-wage employers. Therefore, Oregon should
Create targeted funding streams for universities to:
1. Expand capacity in high-demand programs
2. Launch rapid credentialing and reskilling programs
3. Respond quickly to employer needs
2. Create a statewide work-based learning initiative be establishing incentives (grants or tax
credits) for employers to provide:
1. Paid internships
2. Apprenticeships
3. Cooperative education opportunities
3. Bolster Oregon’s Research and Innovation economy
https://mail.google.com/mail/u/2/#inbox/FMfcgzQgMCXPRwcwdXfMbRFdNZfxdsWM 1/2
