5 . TA L E NT D E V E L O P M E NT
BEST PRACTICES
The National Talent Strategy, published by the Bipartisan Policy Center, calls for a coordinated, data-driven
approach that aligns education, workforce, and industry systems to better connect people to jobs and meet
evolving economic needs. Oregon can lead by implementing this model at the state level, aligning agencies and
funding, building an integrated system to track outcomes, and adapting programs to meet industry demand.
The Florida 2030 Blueprint demonstrates how states can align education and workforce strategies with
economic development goals by identifying high-demand occupations, establishing measurable talent targets,
and connecting K-12, postsecondary, and workforce systems to the skills employers need most.
Additional Recommendations
Direct the Legislature to engage with the Oregon Workforce and Talent Development Board (WTDB) and local
workforce boards to prioritize funding for scalable, high-performing workforce programs with measurable
employment and wage outcomes aligned with industry demand. The Legislature should consolidate fragmented
one-off programs and workforce board structures and invest in proven models that strengthen Oregon’s long-
term talent pipeline and economic competitiveness.
The Governor and the Legislature should direct the Department of Education, Higher Education Coordinating
Commission, and the Oregon Employment Department to build a statewide, outcomes-based, talent
intelligence system as the core technology platform supporting Oregon’s Talent Alignment Strategy. By
integrating education, training, and employment data, the system would provide policymakers, educators, and
employers with real-time insight into talent pipeline performance, shortages, as well as outcomes to inform
funding and program design decisions. This system should be supported by regular external review to ensure
transparency and effectiveness.
Treat talent development as a core economic competitiveness strategy by charging the proposed
Commerce Authority and Cabinet of Talent and Economic Development to align sector strategies, education
investments, and workforce funding with employer demand around Oregon’s highest-growth industries across
urban and rural communities.
Ensure HECC’s upcoming comprehensive study of Oregon’s postsecondary system includes private sector
input and is focused on aligning community college programs toward workforce training and AI skills.
The Governor should engage with the Oregon Employment Department and HECC, in consultation with organized
labor, to enhance access and reskilling for Oregon’s workforce by improving transferability between
community colleges and universities, expanding employer partnerships through customized training, and
promoting lifelong learning through flexible, stackable credential programs.
- 31 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
