The bottom line is that unless Oregon strengthens its business climate through a more predictable and
stable regulatory environment, manageable cost structures and balanced legislative and policymaking
approaches, we risk continued distress. Greater prosperity requires a healthy private sector.
Thank you for your service on the council. Please let us know if you have any questions.
Avoid laws and regulations that make Oregon a policy outlier and
harm the state’s competitiveness, whether in establishing new policies or
evaluating and modernizing existing ones.
 Replace Oregon’s unique Climate Protection Program with a market-based program that allows for
legislative oversight and linkage with other states, invests related revenue in prioritized state policies
related to GHG reduction (e.g., wildfire mitigation, transportation congestion relief, industrial
equipment upgrades) and avoids duplicative or overlapping regulation of GHGs. [B,W]
 Redesign Oregon’s Recycling Modernization Act to ensure it is constitutional, fair and transparent to
regulated entities and consumers; to align costs with outcomes; and to align systems and costs with
other programs. [B]
 Engage in a thorough review of Oregon’s unique, 50+ year old land use system with
recommendations for modernization due to the Legislature for the 2029 session. Attention should be
paid to industrial, housing and energy needs; improving the appeals process; creating more flexibility
for the addition of land into UGBs or land swaps supported by local communities; and updating goals
to reflect modern realities and needs. [B,T]
 Require summaries of proposed policies or policy revisions (statutes and administrative rules) to
include comparative information about whether the proposal exists in other states, outcomes data if
it does, how Oregon’s proposal aligns with or deviates from such policies and how those deviations
are in the best interest of Oregonians. [B]
 Task agencies with reviewing existing administrative rules to identify Oregon-specific approaches
that result in layered, complex and costly regulatory requirements and then update those for
increased efficacy, efficiency and alignment with national norms and best practices. [B]
 Update Oregon’s unique laws and regulations relating to pay equity and non-disclosure agreements
to align with other states’ approaches. [B,W,T]
 Dissolve the Universal Health Plan Governance Board and reject the effort to establish a unique
single payer program. [B,W]
Make Oregon a more affordable place to live, work and run a business.
(Many of the proposals in support of other principles will help realize
this, but there are specific cost-alleviating measures policymakers can take.)
 Modernize the Corporate Activity Tax (CAT) by increasing the threshold and indexing it to inflation,
lowering the rate to a level like the few other states with gross receipts taxes and increasing
OBI Recommendations to Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Council | Spring 2026 | Page 2 of 5
