a result, incentives have high costs per local job they actually create and thus
should receive less emphasis.”
It isn’t just researchers who have made the case that tax expenditures billed as incentives don’t
work or are not necessary. Highly respected business leaders have made this case over many
years. For instance, Bush Administration Treasury Secretary and Alcoa CEO and Chairman,
Paul O’Neill said:
“I never made an investment decision based on the tax code… If you want to give me
inducements for something I am going to do anyway, I will take it. But good business
people do not do things because of inducements; they do it because they can see that
they are going to be able to earn the cost of capital out of their own intelligence and
12
organization of resources.”
Similarly, in Oregon, Mark Modjeski, tax director for Tektronix, our state’s pioneering high tech
company, when asked by an Oregon House Revenue Committee Co-Chair why a tax credit
billed as an incentive made Tek’s presence here more productive than it might otherwise be,
13
Modjeski replied:
“I think that’s a tough question, in all honesty. I mean, would Tektronix be doing anything
different in its business if it did not have a credit on its books? I would say no. I’ll be on
record saying that.”
This is a rare straight-forward and honest response by a major Oregon business leader which
validates the research by publicly recognizing the small role tax policy plays in their business
decisions.
Unfortunately, we have a system of cash prizes that encourage bad corporate citizenship. If a
company does what makes most sense for its business, follows the rules, and pays its taxes, it
gets nothing special. But if it threatens to locate elsewhere or to leave town, it can wrangle tax
expenditures and subsidies.
When businesses are approaching state and local government officials looking to make a deal
about locating facilities in Oregon, they know that public officials have few things in their cookie
jars so they ask for those things. That focus on taxes as important by business is because only
public officials can offer tax giveaways. Other more significant costs of conducting business like
wages, health care costs, materials costs, cannot be impacted directly by those government
officials. The anecdotal focus on taxes gives government officials the false sense that tax levels
are important to the businesses’ decisions.
12
Hearing before the Committee on Finance, United State Senate, 107th Congress, 1st Session, on the
Anticipated Nomination of Paul O’Neill to Be Secretary of the Treasury, January 17, 2001, S. Hrg. 107-5
13
Oregon House Committee on Revenue, April 2, 2015, video record at
https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/mediaplayer/?clientID=4879615486&eventID=2015041067 at 21:27.
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 14 of 17
