Karl Fischer 97266 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce We set working parents up to fail in this country. Childcare is so expensivethat people either don't have children, or choose to stay at home instead of If Oregon is serious about developingand retaining its workforce, then Universal Preschool for All The legislature in order to pass thetaxation into law, local governments to I benefit when my neighbors can affordto live in their homes and feed their Social housing, in-fill development, tolls No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
working full time because they perceive that it's not worth working a jobwhen most of their take-home pay goes to daycare. This takes them out of Preschool for All should not only besupported, but expanded, and made administer the program in theirjurisdictions, and service providers to children and perform meaningful workand save for retirement. I am harmed
the workforce and hobbles their career prospects. universal. Lower income people benefitenormously when they aren't spending run compliant daycare programs. when their economic prospects areswallowed up by debt and they are
a minimum of $14,000 a year per childon full time daycare (know this number forced into crime, delinquency, orpoverty. Programs that reduce the costs
from personal experience as a workingparent). Upper income people benefit of housing, healthcare, transportation,education, and childcare for the
when more of their lower income peerscan participate in the economy, use broadest number of Oregonians benefiteveryone collectively, not just those
their talents, be less stressed, andspend on both obligations and receiving services.
discretionary items, instead of skippingthose things or falling into delinquency.
Chloe Becker 97225 Organization/Business Portland General Electric Private NA Utility 1000+ people Tools for growth Electric utilities power all sectors of the state’s economy, and financiallystable, investable electric utilities are vital to Oregon’s economic growth. Under current law, potential liability forOregon utilities is unbounded and Success would look like Oregonenacting policy solutions to address Addressing wildfire liability requiresLegislature to change Oregon law. Related to wildfire, Oregon has a robustwildfire mitigation program, codified in Other states across the west haveacted in various ways to address utility No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Current regulatory and policy frameworks, particularly as they relate towildfire, have led investors and lenders to view Oregon utilities as high risk. potentially catastrophic, even whenutilities operate industry-leading, unbounded wildfire risk in the utilitysector and customers seeing a SB 762 (2021 session). Oregon’sutilities have developed and wildfire risk. California has acatastrophic wildfire backstop fund.
to protect residential and small business customers from rate increasesThis challenge means higher customer rates and threatens utilities’ ability regulator approved programs to keepcommunities safe. As described in the reduction in upward pressure on rates.With policy action moving, focus can implemented industry leading wildfireprevention programs that are Idaho, Montana, Arizona, Utah, Hawaii,and Wyoming have all passed
while we work to meet the region’s clean energy goals, provide reliableservice and support economic growth. Looking directly at Portland Oregon Department of Energy’s 2025statewide energy strategy, “Oregon shift to building out neededinfrastructure and new development. continually being updated. Action toaddress wildfire liability risk adds to this legislation requiring wildfire mitigationplanning in tandem with various liability
General Electric (PGE), more than two-thirds of the state’s commercial andindustrial activity occurs within our service area. PGE directly and indirectly needs to arrive at a balanced approachto reduce the uncertainty around existing mitigation work. limits.
drives $4.6 billion in economic output and supports a total of 9,421 jobs.Investor-owned utilities like PGE bring the scale of capital needed to fuel [wildfire] liability, which raisessignificant financial risks for utilities and
economic development. That capital comes at a cost—and wildfire liabilityrisk is pushing it higher. Wildfire risk is already impacting credit ratings ratepayers, and at the same timemaintain avenues for accountability and
and borrowing costs. Between 2020 and 2023, wildfire risk was acontributing factor in the credit downgrades of nearly 100 utilities. While redress after a fire.”enact liability limits that balance Oregon should
PGE currently maintains an investment grade credit rating, wildfire risk istop of mind for ratings agencies when looking at Oregon utilities. accountability, contain customer costs,and support the investments customers
Maintaining strong credit quality is essential for sustaining reliableoperations and protecting customers from long-term, compounding rely on.
economic impacts . Beyond the impact on credit ratings and borrowingcosts, unbounded wildfire risk is also driving insurance increases—we’ve
seen our annual premium increase by nearly 180% in the last five years.This issue impacts all types of electric utilities, both large and small,
across the state and must be addressed for Oregon to meet its economicdevelopment goals and prosper. While conversations on the issue have
happened in the Capitol during past sessions, progress has beenhampered by political challenges and ongoing litigation from past wildfire.
Ruth Campbell 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth TriMet is underfunded and cutting service when we need more service. Aswe try to add housing density, we need to facilitate car light and car free Find TriMet. Fund safe routes to school.Raise the payroll tax, raise the gas tax, More frequent buses, more cross townbuses, work in progress on new light State legislature, local governments. TriMet; safe routes to school; the bicyclebill. Congestion pricing in NYC, London,Stockholm. Rail in New Mexico. Look to Yes Workforce Parents in workforce I am a lifelong Oregonian. I’ve spentyears acquiring the education and skills Keep your hands off Preschool for All.Do not take away this program from one Young people know that Oregon is aplace to stay, build a career, and have a Multnomah County has to keep workingon developing and building their new NA New Mexico has child care (for evenyounger children!). Quebec has state No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We need dense housing, walkableneighborhoods, transit and bike route NA
lives, not punish it. I live in an infill home in inner east Portland that webought assuming we could continue not having a car but our government charge for weight & VMT, look atcongestion pricing. Now is not the time rail. More direct and safe bike routesthat children and families can use. EU, Japan. for a career here, hoping I could bestable enough to have a family one day. single family or one single child. Watchand learn from it as it reaches the full family where the community will bethere for you and support you when you program to 2030; the state has to getout of their way and take notes. daycare for about $10/day. connections, all of it safe enough forkids to use. We need money for
going backwards on these promises could mean we either don’t get wherewe need to go or have to come up with disposable income for a car we for austerity, it is the time to build aprosperous society that works together. Reliable and affordable Amtrak toneighboring cities. My county offered me support towardsthat goal in Preschool for All. Now I’m program at 2030. Expand it to others sothat more than Multnomah county can need it. education from daycare to higher ed.Get rid of the kicker and yes, raise taxes
don’t want instead of spending on local businesses. pregnant and my governor is attackingthe program, trying to limit and means prosper but do not punish us for fightingfor and meeting our own needs here. to sustainably fund the prosperity weneed to thrive.
test it or take it away from those of uswho fought for it, maybe replace it with a
stingy state version. I am afraid of nothaving the support I need to keep my
career and build a family at the sametime.
Flindt Windom 97218 Both Porter W. Yett Co. Private NA Construction 21-100 people Business climate The Oregon Climate Protection Program Recall this program as it was institutedby executive order under the false This program no longer exists, andOregon has a program focused on the Oregon Voters, Businesses andGovernment NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Oregon CPP is estimated to costNat, Gas users approx NA
pretense of a "Climate Emergency" inOregon with no evidence of such an efficient use of Carbon fuels. Oregoncan offer tax credits to companies that $5,000,000,000.00 by the end of 2035.This program uses the highest carbon
emergency. show improvements. tax in the world and gives the allocationof these funds to a "non-Profit" that has
yet to be determined. The Industry weare in is operating at peak efficiency
and there is no alternative to NaturalGas that creates less Carbon. This
Carbon Tax will be passed thru to City,County & State budgets as well as to
every Oregonian the uses "CleanBurning Natural Gas".
NA 97202 Both Retail store/commercialproperty owner/multifamily Private NA NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Taxes and fees are too high (especially in Multnomah County/City ofPortland). Regulations are heavy-handed, and for multifamily properties in Tax rates should be lowered. Mult.Co./Portland business income tax Fair regulation developed with inputfrom all affected parties and with a Oregon legislature and localgovernments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Inadequate public safety andhomelessness are huge barriers to NA
property owner particular, they are unworkable. This hostile environment actually results inincreased rents, conflict (and litigation), and discourages investment in the should have a higher exemption leveland should be the same amount focus on developing good policy ratherthan catering to specific groups or running a successful business inOregon or to attracting new investment
development of new housing. (currently, Portland exemption is lower).CAT needs to have more deductions, ideologies. Lower taxes and fees sothat Oregon (and Portland/Multnomah in Oregon. We need to provide betteraddiction and mental health treatment
especially for real estate (buildingexpenses should be deductible). County in particular) are good places todo business. Better use of our tax and to not tolerate behaviors thatdamage the community (i.e. public
Landlord Tenant law needs to bereworked with an emphasis on fairness dollars and a focus on stewardship ofpublic funds. camping, public drug use, theft,...).
for both parties. More input frombusiness owners is essential before
making policy.
Maria Delgado 97030 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Tools for Growth: I believe that if we currently face challenges in providingthe necessary economic development toolkit to existing employers, it would The focus centers on what is alreadyestablished, with a view to I think it would look good, provided thatwe have the support and carry out the I believe that this requires a collectiveeffort—that everyone act as a support I don't know exactly what is currently ineffect, but I believe that anything that is What I would like to see is that—whenan employer receives support in the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Given that everything is based onstatistics, I would like you to focus NA
be more prudent to fully support these established companies first—ratherthan attracting new employers who might simply arrive and then vanish due subsequently determining how to makeroom for new employers. necessary steps. group. All relevant stakeholders mustbe present and provide mutual support; working for everyone—and workingwell—should be maintained or receive form of growth incentives—they trulydeliver on what they promise to do for beyond mere numbers—specifically, onpeople. When you focus on people, the
to a lack of the financial backing and incentives required to navigatepermitting processes and cover their operational needs, especially if we this cannot work if some participatewhile others do not. We know that greater support. the benefit of both their company andtheir employees; that they demonstrate numbers automatically increase. Thankyou.
currently lack the capacity to accommodate additional growth. things work best when everyone isinvolved, both in decision-making commitment and integrity, and that theyfocus on people rather than limiting
processes and in practicalimplementation. themselves to the numbers. That iswhat I would like to see: a supportive
approach that prioritizes theindividual—and not merely
statistics—as the driving force behindgrowth; that would constitute best
NA 97220 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate s s s s s practice.s No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Jordan DT 97201 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Transit funding Fund transit Frequent transit and network growth,not cuts governor, legislature DEQ ECO rule Washington State commute reductionpolicies No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
emily hawley 97034 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Certain business interests have captured our economy, throttling the freemarket and preventing genuine growth and innovation. Extreme inequality Shut down the CEI hub. Increase taxeson corporate profits and the highest A thriving and expanding public transitsystem. A city of Portland that has shut The State legislature needs to placepublic interest over private corporate Pre-School for All and PCEF arevisionary programs that must be Fairer tax system like Washington'snew millionaire tax. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and failures to adequately tax corporate interests prevent the State frombeing able to fully fund the health, infrastructure, educational, and housing income earners. Invest in publicresources AND cut down the down the site threatening to cause thebiggest industrial disaster in US history. lobbyists as does the Oregon Governor. protected and expanded. We must dobetter for our parks, our public transit,
resources our communities, and thus, our businesses, need to thrive! Shutdown the CEI hub which imperils literally all of Multnomah County and bureaucracy preventing incomingentrepreneurs (think Councilor Green's New rising entrepreneurs not shut outof a captured economy. The rich paying and our schools. THIS is economicinvestment.
innumerable business interests. hot dog vision), so we can have foodstands/coffee next to our thriving parks. their fair share. Expanding portland'spre-school for all to the whole state
Invest in public transport not carinfrastructure and highways. (including my county of clackamas!)
Adam H 97214 Both NA Private Technology NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth My employees have difficulty commuting by bike and transit in Portland. Andchild care cost are very high. INCREASE funding to Trimet and bikeinfrastructure. Also, ensure Universal Increased Trimet bus and MAXfrequency, increase to bike lane and The Governor, and all legislators inSalem. NA States that realize funding transit moreleads to more cost savings for the state No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Fund Trimet, Amtrak Cascades, andMultnomah Universal Pre-School! NA
Preschool in Multnomah county is fullyenacted and funded. These are very safety infrastructure, and a fully enactedand funded universal pre-school and less road traffic and its associatedcosts and impacts.
Weston Cox 97211 Both TomorrowLabs Private Technology NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon’s business climate suffers from a lack of predictability and trust in important to me and my employees.Establish a “Founder Stability program for Multnomah.-Increased founder retention in Oregon -Oregon Legislature -Governor’s Oregon’s support for mission-driven States that provide clear, forward- Yes Tools for growth NA Oregon lacks a cohesive strategy for Create a Statewide Innovation More pilot programs launched and State economic development agencies Innovation and entrepreneurship States that act as early adopters of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon is at a pivotal moment in how it NA
policy, particularly for founders and early-stage companies.not simply tax levels—it is policy volatility and retroactive decision-making, The issue is Framework” for Oregon that includes:No Retroactive Economic Policy Oregon as their base-More early-stage companies choosing -Improved Officeagencies -State economic development -Input from founders, and impact-oriented businessesRegional economic development looking tax frameworks (e.g., Texas,North Carolina) Regions that actively supporting scalable, deployabletechnology solutions, particularly those Deployment Program focused on:Pilot-Friendly Infrastructure Make it completedmoving from pilot → scale Higher rate of solutions Oregon Startups and nonprofit partnersLegislature Local governments support programsdevelopment initiatives Community-based Public-private innovation, not just regulatorsRegions that fund deployment, not just is perceived by founders, operators,and investors. There is a strong
which creates an environment where founders cannot confidently plan,invest, or scale. For example, when tax policies are introduced or Changes Codify a principle that tax andregulatory changes impacting perception of Oregon as a stable andtrustworthy place to build -Increased investors, and startup operators initiativescommunity-based entrepreneurship Programs that support engage founders in policy feedbackloops Jurisdictions that prioritize that address systemic challenges like:Education access Workforce easier for startups and organizations totest solutions in real communities. recognized as a testbed for innovative,inclusive technologies Increased partnership efforts researchinclusive, scalable technology Models that support foundation here - values-drivencommunities, talented people, and a
modified in ways that apply retroactively or without sufficient transition time,it signals to founders and investors that the rules of the game can change businesses must be prospective, notretroactive. Minimum Notice Periods in-state investment activity andcompany formation -Success would and innovationfoundations—what’s needed is policy These are strong predictability as a competitive advantage developmentThere is strong innovation happening, Digital infrastructure Public-Private Partnerships Enablecollaboration between startups, collaboration between public andprivate sectors ecosystemsfounders, innovators, and technologists Supporting local history of supporting mission-orientedwork. These are real strengths, and
after decisions have already been made. This increases perceived risk anddiscourages long-term investment in the state. As a founder who Require a 12–24 monthimplementation window for major mean founders are choosing Oregonon purpose, not leaving due to consistency layered on top of them. but limited pathways to pilot, deploy,and scale solutions within Oregon nonprofits, and state agencies.Funding for Scalable Solutions over national firms/companies they matter. They are part of why I choseto build in Oregon in the first place.
intentionally chose Oregon to build a mission-driven company, this hasbeen one of the most significant friction points. Founders can plan around business-related policy changes.Founder & Investor Advisory Council uncertainty. communities. Prioritize funding for technologies thatcan be deployed broadly, not just However, there is a growing gapbetween what Oregon represents
high costs—but they cannot plan around uncertainty. Create a standing advisory group ofearly-stage founders and investors to studied. culturally and what it feels like to buildhere operationally. The most
review proposed economic policychanges before implementation. important shift the state can make is notjust in specific policies, but in how it
Clear Policy Roadmaps Publishforward-looking tax and regulatory shows up for builders:predictability over short-term -Prioritizing
roadmaps so businesses can plan withconfidence. These changes would not optimizationoperators as long-term partners, not -Treating founders and
reduce state revenue—they wouldincrease confidence, investment, and just taxpayers or a piggy bankCreating systems that make it easier to -
retention of high-growth companies. start, hire, test, and scale ideasnow, many founders are asking Right
themselves whether they can continuebuilding here - not because they want to
leave, but because uncertainty andmoving goalposts makes it difficult to
stay.differentiate itself not by being the Oregon has an opportunity to
cheapest or the most aggressive, but bybeing the most trustworthy place to
build something meaningful.state can commit to consistency, If the
Reilly Shea 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Access to free, quality education Provide access to free quality educationfor preschool, K-12, and adults Education without debt for all! Removethe corporatization of education. Legislative system, local governments,educators, etc Paid Leave Oregon Finland, Germany, Denmark No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA transparency, and partnership with theStop prioritizing Corporate interestsover peoples needs NA
including skilled trades, continuingeducation, and advanced degree
Karen Darling 97218 Both Rest and Ritual/Bodies ofWater, foundseed Private NA Healthcare,agriculture 1 - 20 people Tools for growth What are we growing? Land use must prioritize our climate's stability. Allprojections show we are one of the most stable climates in the continental programs.-prioritize forest conservation overquarterly profits -fund research and Our overdose deaths go down. Ourgraduation rates go up. ICE buildings For each point in this answer, it will takea dedicated actor at the state, county, Preschool for all Tax kickbacks Highertaxes on big corp The bus/train The stuff Mamdani is doing is prettycool. But I believe our state should act No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
US, and that will mean we are going to only see an increase in transplantsas climate refugees. So are we going to prioritize the CEI hub, the logging preservation of our riverways -fundaffordable housing, temporary basic have been closed or are in the processof being closed. Rivers and forests are city, and private levels to pull through.These are complex legislative points! infrastructure already present COVIDrental assistance programs Strong on what I believe to be our core valueseven if we don't have an example to
industry, the power industry, and sell off forested land that is worth morethan it's weight in gold? Or are we going to allow the natural resources of income, safer use sites, and fightagainst Grant's Pass criminalization of less polluted and not constantlythreatened by CEI hub and power forest protections follow.
our state flourish under our continued protection?Are we giving our children enough to eat, good teachers, a safe ride to What are we growing? unsheltered sleepingfor all, and build up food and rent -fund preschool companies. Trimet installs MORE busstops not less! Hillsboro doesn't get
school, a dry place to sleep? Why are we threatening preschool for all whengrowing our community is supposedly the goal of this committee? Do we assistance -prioritize neighborhoodhealth and safety by removing ICE bought out by data centers.
think business CEOs are going to grow up and become a member of ourstate economy? How can we claim to be a sanctuary city when no child is detention locations and designprosecutable legislation against
any safer here than Minnesota? unreasonable use of force againstcitizenry practicing first amendment
rights -fund infrastructure that supportsbiking, transit, and stop kneeling for the
car lobbies -fund water and powerinfrastructure that will be more resilient
against climate collapse
Kay C Smith 97336 Both Boys & Girls Club ofCorvallis Non-profit NA YouthDevelopmen 101-500 people Business climate The constant very high increase of insurance premiums for both liabilityand employee benefits are becoming a tremendous burden. A ceiling on lawsuits for liabilitiessimilar to what is in place for schools Liability insurance premiums reducingby 15% or more. Employers offering This would take action from all partiesbut begin with legislature. The Paid Leave Oregon is becomingbetter but still needs refinment. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
tOrganization and governmental entities.Disassociating health insurance from benefit insurance stipends foremployees to use at their discretion.
Spencer J Thayer 97203 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The primary challenge is the underlying assumption that a "skills gap" isthe main barrier to a competitive labor market. From the perspective of employment.Oregon must redefine workforcedevelopment as a reciprocal social In two to three years, success would bedefined by increased economic mobility The Oregon Legislature must lead byfully funding universal childcare The Future Ready Oregon initiative is ahighly valuable framework because it Oregon should look closely atWashington State's approach to the Yes Business climate NA The most significant friction point inOregon's business climate is the Oregon must prioritize revenue stabilityand corporate accountability by closing In two to three years, success wouldlook like a stabilized and robustly The Oregon Legislature must take theprimary role by enacting comprehensive The Corporate Activity Tax is anessential policy that must be protected Oregon should look to Minnesota,which recently passed a sweeping No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon should look closely at the publicbanking model established by the Bank NA
Portland's working families, the actual friction point is a "quality job gap"and the lack of social infrastructure required to maintain employment. contract. Instead of primarilysubsidizing training pipelines that serve for working-class Oregonians and ameasurable decrease in household initiatives and expanding debt-freepathways through community colleges recognizes the need for equitableaccess to training and prioritizes green economy, which specifically linksenvironmental policy with workforce imbalance between corporateprofitability and public revenue stability. tax loopholes that benefit multinationalconglomerates at the expense of local funded public sector. Revenuegenerated from fair corporate taxation tax reform to close corporate loopholesand ensure large employers pay their and strengthened. It correctly ensuresthat businesses generating significant package of pro-worker and pro-familyeconomic policies. By guaranteeing of North Dakota. A state-owned publicbank could keep Oregon's financial
Framing workforce development simply as tailoring workers to meetemployer demands ignores the material reality that many available jobs do corporate employers, the state mustinvest directly in the material conditions debt related to education and childcare.We would see expanding industries, and vocational schools. The Bureau ofLabor and Industries (BOLI) needs historically marginalized communities.Similarly, the Oregon Promise Grant, development by funding a "JustTransition" for workers. This ensures A "predictable environment" foremployers too often translates into an enterprises. We must strictly conditionany public subsidies, permitting fast- would be visibly reinvested into ourcommunities through expanded public fair share. State agencies like theDepartment of Revenue and the revenue in Oregon contribute to oureducation system and public paid sick leave, banning captiveaudience meetings, and strengthening resources local, providing low-interestloans for critical municipal
not cover the basic costs of housing, groceries, and healthcare.Furthermore, workers cannot participate in unpaid training programs or of the workers themselves. First, wemust aggressively expand "earn while particularly renewable energy andadvanced manufacturing, populated by increased funding and capacity toregulate and expand registered which helps students attend communitycollege, is vital for reducing the financial that state-supported jobs in growingsustainable sectors are high-quality, unpredictable and fragile existence forthe working class. When massive out- tracks, or tax incentives on clearcommunity benefit agreements. These transit, affordable housingdevelopments, and well-resourced Department of Environmental Qualityneed the funding and mandate to infrastructure. Furthermore, Oregon'sstrict environmental protections and protections for warehouse workers,Minnesota proved that you can create a infrastructure, small local businesses,and green energy projects, rather than
enter growing sectors when childcare costs are astronomical andadvanced education requires taking on crippling personal debt. We cannot you learn" apprenticeship modelsbeyond the building trades and into a highly skilled, unionized workforce.Success means that a worker in apprenticeships across new industries.Employers must fundamentally change barriers to workforce entry. Furthermore,BOLI's existing Registered prevailing-wage jobs. Additionally, weshould emulate models like New of-state corporations utilize taxloopholes and demand public agreements must require employers topay family-sustaining wages, provide public schools. We would see a thrivingecosystem of small businesses and enforce regulations strictly and fairly.Local governments must collaborate to land-use planning laws are vital. Theyprevent unchecked urban sprawl and highly predictable and stable businessclimate by explicitly protecting the allowing public funds to generate profitsfor out-of-state financial institutions.
build a robust, resilient workforce if the system only extracts labor withoutinvesting in the worker's long-term economic stability. healthcare, green energy, and earlychildhood education. Second, the state Portland or anywhere in Oregon cantransition into a new career path without their operational models by raisingbaseline compensation and offering Apprenticeship programs represent theabsolute gold standard for workforce Mexico's recent permanent fundingstructures for early childhood education. subsidies to operate here, they shift thetax burden onto working families and comprehensive healthcare, and adhereto the highest environmental standards. worker-owned cooperatives that are nolonger being priced out or undercut by ensure that local permitting processesprioritize projects that deliver tangible protect the natural resources that makeour state unique. Strong enforcement by working class. Additionally, Oregonshould emulate California's stringent Additionally, Oregon should emulate thesocial housing development models
must recognize that childcare is criticaleconomic infrastructure. By building a facing financial ruin, confident that thejobs waiting for them offer family- flexible, humane scheduling to attractthe talent they claim they need. Finally, development because they guaranteewage progression, safe working By treating early childcare as aguaranteed public good rather than a small local businesses. This dynamicstarves our communities of the long- By leveling the playing field, we ensurethat businesses compete on innovation subsidized monopolies. Ultimately, asuccessful business climate would be community benefits. Finally, corporateemployers must recognize that their the Bureau of Labor and Industriesregarding wage theft and workplace pay transparency laws and their recentefforts to establish minimum safety currently being successfully pioneeredin places like Montgomery County,
universal, state-funded childcaresystem, we remove the largest barrier sustaining wages, predictablescheduling, and a democratic voice in educational institutions and trainingpartners must collaborate directly with conditions, and a direct, debt-freepathway to a stable livelihood. These private commodity, they have provided abrilliant blueprint for permanently term revenue needed to fund essentialpublic services like schools, housing, and quality rather than their ability toexploit workers or degrade the defined by the high quality of life andeconomic security of the workforce that long-term viability depends on ahealthy, well-compensated workforce safety is also a crucial component of afair business climate that protects standards for warehouse productionquotas. These models prove that strong Maryland. By having the public sectortake an active role in developing high-
to workforce entry and retention. Finally,any state investments in talent their workplace. labor unions, not just corporate advisoryboards, to design programs that programs must be fiercely protected,fully funded, and scaled up. removing the massive friction point thatkeeps so many working-class parents and infrastructure. A truly competitivebusiness climate cannot be built on environment. This approach fosters ahealthy market where responsible local sustains it. and must willingly invest in theiremployees rather than fighting basic responsible employers from beingundercut by bad actors. regulations do not stifle growth butinstead create a fairer, more quality, mixed-income housing, thestate can directly resolve the market
development for growing sectors mustbe strictly tied to employer empower workers and protect theirrights. out of the labor market. corporate tax avoidance and the chronicunderfunding of the public goods that businesses can actually thrivealongside well-regulated larger regulatory standards. transparent market that benefits bothhonest businesses and working failures that have left so many workingfamilies struggling to survive.
commitments to provide living wages,comprehensive benefits, and neutrality make Oregon a desirable place to liveand work. employers. families.
in union organizing.
Katie Chamberlain 97204 Organization/Business Renewable Northwest Non-profit NA renewableenergy and 1 - 20 people Tools for growth - The slow deployment of transmission infrastructure and clean energyresources, which hampers economic development in the state. - Utility - Easing siting and permitting barriersfor transmission and clean energy - Quicker deployment of clean energyand grid infrastructure that would allow The legislature, state agencies, energystakeholders, and local governments. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
storage wildfire liability, which reduces utilities ability to invest in new infrastructureand makes those investments more expensive for Oregonians by raising resources. Fortunately, the Governorissued EO 25-29 directing agencies to for business expansion and newbusinesses in the state - Utilities
the cost of capital. address these challenges in severalworkstreams: - ODOE, DLCD, and the demonstrating continual progresstowards HB 2021's emission reduction
PUC are tasked with reducing barriersto clean energy deployment by standards
analyzing barriers to the permitting,construction, and interconnection of
clean energy projects and associatedinfrastructure. ODOE will produce a
report to the Governor by September 1,2026 with findings and
recommendations.agencies are tasked with - The same
recommending actions to update sitingand permitting processes to facilitate
deployment of renewable energy,energy storage, and grid infrastructure.
This report is also due by September 1,2026. - ODOE, the PUC, and the
Governor’s office are working toaccelerate transmission siting and
buildout through the identification anddesignation of transmission corridors,
streamlining of siting and permittingapprovals, and targeting of financial
support.streamlining across agencies with - Enhanced coordination and
jurisdiction over energy infrastructure.- More centralized planning of and
NATALIE Seals 97201 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The biggest friction point right now in funding. A state that people want to support for new transmissioninfrastructure. Utilities currently plan forWe need a 2% minimum wealth tax on Success in 2 to 3 years would be You have to act by reining in Transit is of utmost importance right I would like to see Oregon emulate No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Business owners don't create jobs. NA
move to and live in is that we keep giving rich people all of our money andrefusing to tax them. Massachusetts has set the example that if you tax the people who make over $2 million a year. having enough money to fully fund asocially supportive state where people Republicans and business interestswho are hell-bent on destroying our now. It is absolutely unacceptable thatwe're cutting transit. We don't need a Massachusetts and tax the ultra wealthy They create money for themselves.Citizens who have spending power
richest people in your state, you will have money to provide for everyoneelse in the state which will benefit everyone in the state including the rich can afford to live and want to live. state. Right now the governor seemsintent on destroying the state and I'm mega project bridge. We need moretransit. create jobs by creating demand bybeing able to buy things and go places
people because they get richer. The threats they make about leaving areempty. They will not leave. They will flock here instead. not sure why. and spend their money. Stop focusingon businesses and start focusing on
Chris Celauro 97215 Both Marketing Agent Private Business and NA 1 - 20 people Business climate It's too expensive to do business in the city of Portland, and the return on Lower taxes for businesses and 10% decrease in business and legislature, local governments 0 No state income taxes, or significantly No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA people.Ask the business community what they NA
ProfessionalServices taxes is negative. families (if you want stop the enrollmentcliffs for public schools). personal taxes. lower. Less regulations. Stop thehostile posture towards big business. need. Don't listen to any Oregonlegislature who created the poor
You can't have a thriving economywithout big business. economic environment, including thegovernor. They have no clue and think
social programs fund themselves.
Mark Jackson 97220 Both REAP Non-profit Business andProfessional NA 21-100 people Workforce There's opportunity to impact what appears to be a fragile pipeline forworkforce development and upward mobility. Funding targeting nonprofitorganizations who have career Financial incentives for students when itcomes to the trades and behavioral The landscape of key stakeholders mayinclude egislature, nonprofits, local Student Success Plans None come to mind at this time. Oregonhas some many impactful models that No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA What is the plan for the ProsperityCouncil to be inclusive of the faith NA
Services readiness services for the emergingworkforce. health certifications and enrollmentcosts. In addition, public and private governments, employers,education/training partners. are working. They just need sustainablesupport. community. There are many clergyacross the state who offer tremendous
partnerships to support youthentrepreneurs professional acumen aside from theirreligious service to the community.
Kyle Colgan 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Focus on progressive taxation, not regressive. Also prevent the increasedpermitting of timber sale on a scale that will destroy much of Oregon's Don't give millions of dollars inhandouts to the richest of the rich (for Limiting real estate speculation andusing vacant properties as investment Governments need to tax the rich andinvest money in social services and NA Washington state's recent wealth tax No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Thanks for letting me submit on yourlittle capitalist survey! NA
natural beauty and resources example, the public money being giftedto the billionaire new Trailblazers owner vehicles while rent becomesunaffordable and people go homeless. housing.
as a bribe to keep the team in Portland.That deal is a historically bad deal for
the city in comparison to any other citythat has contributed financially to
building an NBA arena.)
Ian Lewallen 97035 Both Deacon Development Private Business andProfessional Real EstateDevelopmen 1 - 20 people Business climate Portland presently is unable to attract capital, that is the bottom line.Capital goes where it is most appreciated. Be attractive Jobs, jobs, jobs. Water flows down hill Property tax abatements to spur hosingdevelopment NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Money has a buffet of options, they willchoose the most attractive dish, the one NA
Services t that is least risky and tastes the best.Focus on how to be the most attractive
and best tasting dish that doesn't costmore then all the other dishes.
John Warhurst 97062 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Wages don’t keep up with costs of living. More restrictions on governmentspending A $50,000 yearly income is impossiblefor a family to maintain a healthy All of government has this power justneed to work together. ( an impossible Care for the elderly Just be a leader. Do what makes youfeel right. I know nothing about politics. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Bill Bigelow 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I am concerned that the wealthy and corporations are not paying their fair A wealth tax. Higher corporate rates. lifestyle.More funds available for education and task)Legislature, governor. Employers would NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It does not seem to me that this survey NA
share. End the kicker. other social services. need to look at the long term health ofthe state and not only short term self was distributed widely and so I wouldbe suspicious of its results. Part of
interest. prosperity is justice and equality, and Ido not see this in the questions.
Charles Retherford 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Workforce availability, hampered by high cost of living (specifically rent) Increase housing production, empowermunicipalities to fund social housing Flat or lowering rents in major labormarkets around the state State & local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prosperity is for everyone, not justinvestors, but actuall small business NA
NA 97045 Organization/Business Various regional and NA NA NA NA NA Please see attachment for all responses. NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA owners and their employees tooThe feedback in this document is a Clack%20Co%20Gov%20Prosp%20En
jurisdictional partners whoengaged in the Prosperity general summary and a consolidationof comments collected from various gagement%20Meeting%20Summary%2003092026.pdf
Council meeting hosted byClackamas County Office of regional and jurisdictional partners whoengaged in the Prosperity Council
Economic Development onMarch 9, 2026 meeting hosted by Clackamas CountyOffice of Economic Development on
March 9, 2026.is intended to be a reflection of the No feedback provided
opinion of Clackamas County. Themeeting was held in accordance with
Facilitator’s Guide the ProsperityCouncil provided b the State of Oregon
(available here).Questions: Laura Edmonds, Manager Contact for
Office of Economic Development 150Beavercreek Road Oregon City, OR
97045 ledmonds@clackamas.us(503) 742-4366
Lisa Lane 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce I challenge I would like addressed is the chasm between big businessinterests and the average worker. Big business wants to avoid paying their Make businesses pay their FULL shareof taxes. The wealthy must subsidize Budget increases from the increasedrevenue. Increased services like Legislature, local city/countyadministrators, and top govt leaders OHP, Medicaid, SNAP, infrastructureimprovements for public transit and Housing First like Utah No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I need the "Prosperity Council" to knowthat businesses will thrive here when NA
fair share of taxes, while workers in the state get no tax breaks and servicesfor the needy are made more difficult to fund and attain. the people, because workers maketheir business successful and because housing, healthcare, transportation,infrastructure. like Kotek. bicyclists (odot, pbot), Street ResponseTeam the workforce has enough money to buytheir products and services. When
its their duty to give and not just take. workers are broke, businesses have noone to sell to. Also, "prosperity" for big
business often comes with austerity foreveryone else. That must change. We
see through the attempts manipulatethe data to show that businesses and
the wealthy are "leaving" multco and thestate. They are not. Stop pushing that
narrative.
Steve Franceschini 97222 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Technical trades need to be prioritized, specifically machining, die build,tool design, maintenance and troubleshooting Provide incentive and marketing fortrade school work. Availability of skilled apprentices andjourneymen to fill the void in our aged All above. Legislature, localgovernment, education/training centers, I'm not aware of any. Much more common on the East Coast,so likely a larger municipality there No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Ronald Jensen 97367 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth There remains a real need for the energy supplied by natural gas. We Stop trying to kill the natural gas workforce.Yearly, a reliable and independent and employers to support.State government should be the main Oregons overall desire to be a clean would be a target.Oregon is lead by one party political No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
should all be aware of the electrical power demand - and the shortagesthat are projected to get worse. Gas energy and the existing support industry that is currently a vitalcompanion to the electrical grid. Gas assessment and accounting of theelectrical grid improvements would be body responsible for oversite andmonitoring of the utilities. Counties energy state is a good thing. This has tobe a balanced approach that is not leadership that thinks they have all theanswers. Without serious
infrastructure are vital to help us bridge the energy gap until electricaldemand is met with clean electrical supplies. should continue to be available and notpenalized as an evil step child until our vital to business investment. Brownoutand power disruptions are business should also be involved in localoperations and feedback. short sighted or vilified by poordecisions that don't help us meet that representation by all groups, successin these issues is most likely not
power grid is fully meeting andmaintaining our needs. killers. They also cause major damageto business and residential customers. goal. Killing the natural gas industrynow might just do that. possible.
A reliable report that shows how thegrid supply is improving should help
attract and keep business growth on anupward trajectory.
Carrie Lyons 97527 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Recruiting physical and occupational therapists and assistants to fill opennursing home spots in southern Oregon. Increase the number of schools for PT,PTA, OT and COTA’s in the state. Fully staffed therapy departments thatdon’t have to hire temporary traveling Start PTA/COTA programs as RogueCommunity College. Environmental protections, OHP, joiningthe healthcare group with the other west More housing for the homeless, not justa fenced in parking lot. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
therapists to fill their staff. coast states to preserve science basedpractices
NA 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce workforce skills. My small business does not have the bandwidth to investso much in skill building and, at times when we have, the employees leave High school matters. That’s not news.But, lacking that, community colleges this may sound counterintuitive, but ifwe had a number of skilled community Start programs that are big enough toactually succeed. Pilot programs are The bad news is that not a singleprogram jumps out. That realization This is not a best practice, but based ondirect observation, some of the state No Business climate NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 1. Housing. It needs to be affordable foreveryone. 2. That doesn’t mean NA
too soon for bigger jobs. If we were a school, that’s success; but we arenot, and it’s a loss in our column. matter more for the immediate future (3-5 years). college graduates looking for work thatmight be an expected resource for too expensive in terms of time.Conciser contracting out some of those alone is sad. programs supporting import/export toplaces like Viet Nam and SE Asia blowing up farmland. Rather, it meansbuilders need to have a a different
business expansion. Yes, the (short?)gap time in-between would be kinds of projects and let the contractorsfigure it out. Then, the public sector gets makes me wonder if Oregon has avariation of the MN Somali experience in model. We still have lots of land INSIDEboundaries but the profit margin for the
uncomfortable… to pick later what to retain. Keep newprograms simple and don’t try to its future. big builders is lower. Too bad. Why notprovide support to the smaller builders.
address a bunch of issues all at once.This will be very hard to do. It’s all the It could be as simple as an intelligent,empowered building permit staff that is
“extras” that get added on to programsthat make it hard (impossible?) for consistent. (Of course, that means adifferent funding model for those
others to meaningfully participate.more issues jammed into one “goal” The departments to prevent the up anddown swings.) 3. Let’s not get log-
the more likely it will be to fail or under-perform. jammed because of builders’ outdatedbusiness models.
Andrew N Naegeli 97232 Organization/Business Deacon Construction, LLC Private Business andProfessional Construction 21-100 people Business climate Oregon, especially the Portland Metro is not business friendly nor attractsinvestments from investors or developers. Oregon is one of the last places Focus on generating a solid tax base bypromoting a good business climate A thriving economy in the Portland Metrowhere business is relocating or staying Starts with Oregon leadership.Governor, Mayor, City Councils. The In our industry, none. Their is very littlepolicy that stands out that support Less imposing of special interest ideasvia taxes or executive orders. Do what No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We have been in business for 45yearsin Portland. If progress is made in the NA
Services businesses wish to invest due to overregulation, taxes and fees. Socialprograms have been prioritized at the expense of pushing quality taxpayers rather than increasing barriers,regulation and fees and/or raising in downtown. Investors see Portland asa viable place to invest their time, local governments need to be made upof leadership that balances business growth or investment. the majority of the people you representwant, not what the politicians promise next 1-2yrs, we will leave Portland andpossibly the state to neighboring
out of the state. taxes. More investment in businessgenerates jobs, which generates money or business. Reduces barriersfor all business to be successful representation of business and people.It currently represents special interests to specail interst groups. locations where we can be moresuccessful.
spending and more tax revenue withoutraising taxes on a "rich". (regulation, taxes, fees) and non-business minded folks. A Cityneeds to be run like a business.
Patricia Kullberg 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth early childhood education Universal pre-K for all families; Studiesdemonstrate a 3-1 return on investment Every child in the state has access tofree pre-K education local and state legislators Portland pre-school for all Other states are looking to us toemulate our program in Portland No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
reflected in declining poverty rates,better labor force development; attracts
Dianne Riley 97220 Both Rocky Butte Stewardship Private Business and NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Oregon like many other states has an approach to economic growth that is business and workers to our stateDirect more money into public higher incomes for teachers, nurses, state legislators who can address tax Oregon is on a trajectory toward As far as I know Oregon is the leader on No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
LLC ProfessionalServices rapidly becoming obsolete due in part to the current federal administrationand their poor choices. Greater alignment is needed between what our education (especially universal pre-K),healthcare for all, housing, small essential workers and the lowestincome households, greater savings policy and tackle the shortfalls in publicbudgets by updating the kicker and universal, single payer healthcare thatmust be properly supported and fully single payer healthcare. We need to getit done and do it well because we have
communities know they need and what policy makers default to whenscarcity drives decision making. Our economic policy default is based on businesses and incentives for savingand reinvesting locally rates, other poorly conceived economic policy implemented in order for the state toreap the financial benefits that are the people, expertise and plan for it. Wejust need the legislature to properly
20th century assumptions about economic growth that have long beendiscredited by academic investigation and our own direct experience with possible. With a well implementedsingle payer system every business, fund getting it across the finish line
poorly conceived economic policies. Now more than ever, we need greaterinvestment in Oregonians through the existing and obvious channels of every household, every institution andindividual in Oregon would experience
public education, opportunity programs, universal pre-K and investments insmall and emerging businesses. We do not need to attract or compete with an enormous financial benefit thatcould be the example for economic
other states for more corporate residents or large scale business projects(especially at the continued expense of our natural environment). Our prosperity everywhere else.
people and our environment make Oregon not only beautiful butprosperous.
Norm Baxter 97304 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Workers in Oregon are struggling with wages that have been stagnant for40 years. Aggressively tax the plutocrats that aredestroying our democracy, our Our economy would prosper becausethe success of our economy is directly The legislature. Raising the minimum wage hashelped, but it's not enough. Other states have implemented taxeson wealth and income inequality with No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
economy, and our environment. It's notenough to raise the minimum wage. tied to paying all workers a living wage. some success. Oregon should takethe same approach.
Taxes must be levied on the wealth andincome of those who have profited by
denying a living wage to workers.
Duncan Miller 97215 Both Rose City Robotics Private Technology NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Taxes Lower taxes, remove Preschool andHousing taxes More companies moving here, lesscompanies moving away Legislation Prosper Portland, Business Oregon Low taxes, reduced red tape for startups No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Lots of founders I work with are leaving NA
Jordan Lewis 97209 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Transit funding and multimodal access. Stop cutting Trimet’s budget.People rely on it to get to work. I’m currently in New York and the fast Downtown tunnel, bus lanes on majorarterials, fast frequent and reliable night Bus and train are reliable usefuloptions for everyone. State legislature needs to save transitby raising STIF permanently or Trimet funding, safe routes to schooland Amtrak—both DEFUNDED in Bustang in Colorado. Amtrak serviceexpansion in Illinois, Minnesota, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Don’t kill preschool for all tina. Icanvassed for you and regret it all the NA
frequent reliable transit is stunning. Every city that has chosen cardependence is slowly dying. I’m from Charleston West Virginia which is a service. Protected bike lanes andsidewalks everywhere. Secure bike equivalent progressive fee. City shouldbuild out hardened bike lanes, bus recent legislative for MORE PAVING,MORE BIGGER ROADS…. We are California, New York, Alabama. TransitSERVICE expansion in Seattle, DC, time. I preemptively apologize to myfriends before I say this to them which I
hole. parking. lanes, sidewalks. becoming Columbus Ohio. We areslopped nothing and losing our identity. Boston, New York, Chicago, LA. It’s nothard. Embrace our transportation-rich have done to over 50 people. I jokinglycall you “Bus Cut Kotek” to friends and
past which put us on the map. Don’t tryto be charlotte North Carolina. We will strangers.
never beat them at having larger chik fila parking lots and McMansions than
them.
Robert Beatty-Walters 97214 Both Law Office of Robert Beatty-Walters Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Workforce Our entire education system needs to be infused with resources to educateall of our citizens from K- College, tech, or trade school. Tax the rich. Lots more money for schools includingpoint of access (teachers) salaries to The legislature Nothing specific Good question to ask your staff. Whatstates have the best schools? What No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Look at what Washington state just didwith taxing the rich. Do the same thing . NA
Services attract the best available. But sets them apart?
