Wildfire Policy
 Creation of a Wildfire Fund. The goal is to create a fund that could be accessed in the
event of a catastrophic wildfire to compensate impacted individuals and businesses in a
timely way and provide a shared safety net for utilities facing high wildfire costs,
especially from catastrophic events. It is designed to make wildfire liability more
predictable and manageable – protecting customers, stabilizing energy service and
promoting investment in safety. Fund concepts create a pool of money potentially
sourced from multiple contributors, including state governments, utilities (shareholders
and customers) and other private industry partners related to wildfire prevention.
 Limitations of Liability. Along with funds, there should also be clear and effective
limitations of liability relating to wildfires, including limitations on noneconomic
damages. Limitations of liability are the single most effective measure for supporting
utilities and reducing the cost of the risk borne by customers. Limitations of liability are a
clear signal to investors about the risk they will bear by investing in a regulated utility in
the state. Limitations of liability, in combination with a Wildfire Fund, also have the
benefit of extending the overall life of funds created to compensate those affected by
fires.
 Standards of Care. Defining standards of care by which a reasonable utility should
operate to prevent wildfire provides certainty for utilities and customers. Wildfire
mitigation plans are developed by utilities and approved by the Commission. Policies
associated with certifying that a utility is operating to an approved wildfire mitigation
plan should provide rebuttable presumptions in a court of law.
 Lowering The Costs. Limitations on attorneys fees and subrogation claims serve to
reduce overall costs for utilities and customers. Certainty as to these costs help to ensure
capital investment and lower costs for customers.
Regulatory Certainty and Efficiency
 Regulatory Lag. Regulatory lag results in a drag on a utility’s financial ability to make
continual progress in the investments needed to reliably serve its customers in a way that
achieves state energy goals. It is important to more closely align cost recovery with when
costs are incurred for all elements of revenue requirement. All tools, inclusive of cost-
recovery mechanisms, that can improve efficiency and reduce regulatory lag should be
explored (i.e., interim rate adjustments, trackers, true-up mechanisms, multi-year plans,
etc.).
 Recovery of Operational Costs. New challenges in load growth and generation mix are
creating a significant amount of volatility and uncertainty in the ability of utilities to
recover the operational costs necessary to meet these challenges. Reviewing existing
mechanisms, and the possible development of new mechanisms, to ensure that they are
structured effectively to ensure that the incentives are aligned with the state’s energy
goals is important.
2
