Energy Trust’s support for energy efficiency and renewable energy has economic benefits of
saving people and businesses money, investing in local communities, creating jobs and
increasing business income.
Energy efficiency is among the lowest-cost energy resources available to utilities to meet their
customers’ energy needs, costing less than what utilities would pay for most other sources.
When customers save energy, utilities are able to defer spending on new infrastructure,
including energy generation, transmission and distribution. These deferred costs help keep
rates lower than they otherwise would be and become savings that are passed on to all utility
customers, including businesses. For every $1 Energy Trust has invested in energy efficiency,
utility customers have saved nearly $2.72.
Since 2002, participating customers have also saved $8.5 billion on energy bills from building
retrofits, operations and maintenance improvements, high-performance new construction and
renewable energy systems. These savings recirculate in Oregon’s economy, driving broader
economic benefits for all. Dollars saved on energy bills deliver far-reaching benefits to the
economy through new purchases of goods and services, job creation, increased wages and
new business income.
Since 2002, the net economic benefits of Energy Trust’s expenditures, energy savings and
renewable energy generation added $12.7 billion to Oregon’s economy, including $4.3
billion in wages, $699 million in small business income and employment equivalent to
93,600 full-time jobs. (Figures are based on an independent analysis by Pinnacle
Economics.)
Energy Trust’s network of more than 1,600 trade ally contractors and 145 allied businesses
located in Oregon and Washington – including local electricians, construction workers,
engineers, architects and others – report employing about 17,500 people related to our work in
the marketplace. Businesses range in size from one to 200 employees or more; the majority are
small businesses with 20 employees or fewer.
For local businesses, energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions not only control costs,
but also help meet growing sustainability and corporate responsibility commitments. Energy
Trust features many examples on our website, from A-dec in Newberg to Laika in Hillsboro.
If you have materials and or/reports that would be helpful for the Prosperity
Council to review, please upload them here. (Max 16MB)
• Economic Impacts of Energy Trust of Oregon’s 2023 Program Activities (most recently
completed study), accessible at https://www.energytrust.org/wp-
content/uploads/2024/10/ETO-PY2023-Final-04_29_2024.pdf
Page 5 of 5
