E X E C UT IV E S U M M A RY
A Choice to Grow
Oregon’s economic future is not guaranteed. Without stronger leadership and better coordination across
government, the state risks missing a generation of growth and opportunity. Oregon has fallen behind many of its
competitors on key measures of economic competitiveness, while businesses and residents face rising costs and
increasing uncertainty. The result is a growing sense that Oregonians are paying more but receiving less, threatening
the state’s ability to support businesses and create pathways to prosperity. Future growth will depend on doubling
down on entrepreneurship, startup formation, and business expansion, while ensuring that companies can invest and
grow in Oregon.
Priority Recommendations
The Council identified 10 priority recommendations to advance Oregon’s economic competitiveness and long-term
prosperity. The state’s success will be measured on rising incomes, quality job creation, improved educational
outcomes, and stable public revenues. The full report provides more detail and additional recommendations across
five topic areas:
ECONOMIC PERMITTING & SITE TALENT
TAXES
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS READINESS DEVELOPMENT
10 PRIORITY RECOMMENDATIONS
Transform Business Oregon into the Oregon Commerce Authority, governed by a board of
business and innovation leaders and the Governor and modeled on best practices for statewide
1
economic development organizations. The Governor must ensure effective personnel and board
members lead the transformation and the agency.
Strengthen Oregon’s economic competitiveness with tax policies that are more pragmatic
and in alignment with neighboring states, while supporting innovation, business growth, and higher-
wage job creation and moving the state toward a more balanced system. Near-term reforms
should include:
Modernize the Research & Development tax credit to expand eligibility and encourage
2
university partnerships, with a key focus on small and medium-sized businesses.
Update the Estate Tax with an emphasis on supporting family-owned businesses.
Reform the Corporate Activity Tax (CAT) to reduce administrative burdens on small and
medium-sized businesses while maintaining overall revenue levels.
Reconnect the Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS) policies to the federal tax code to
help Oregon retain and grow emerging businesses.
- 6 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
