March 19, 2026
Governor Tina Kotek
State of Oregon
Dear Governor and Staff,
Portland Seed Fund is writing to urge a line-item veto of the SB 1507 provision regarding
disconnecting QSBS from the Federal tax code. It is poorly researched, irresponsibly drafted,
and unfair tax policy. While failing to generate substantial future revenue, it sends an immediate
signal that Oregon is the least entrepreneur-friendly state, a message we can ill-afford in this
challenging economic climate and the exact opposite of your stated goal December 3, 2025 when
you announced your Prosperity Roadmap.
We find ourselves perplexed and beyond disappointed as to why lawmakers would decouple the
QSBS exemption - easily the most potent incentive for entrepreneurs and their investors to build
growth companies – without involvement by Portland Seed Fund or two other major stakeholders,
Oregon Venture Fund and the State’s own venture capital expert, the Oregon Growth Board. It is
our belief that “the train had left the station” before anyone with standing in the industry was
aware of this and able to get the word out to the thousands of high-growth entrepreneurs we
touch.
Portland Seed Fund (with its sister Intrepid Oregon Fund) is the most active venture capital
investor in Oregon (Source: CB Insights). As a small, home-grown fund investing in 225+ home-
grown startups since 2010, our portfolio companies have returned $150 per dollar invested by
the State within 5 years (Source: ECO Northwest), making it one of Oregon’s highest
performing economic development tools on an ROI basis. The State of Oregon is a Limited
Partner (LP) in all Portland Seed Funds, alongside ~200 private investors, who literally constitute
the “private” in public-private partnerships. This fails to capture the hundreds of millions of
dollars raised by our portfolio companies almost exclusively from private investors, fueling high-
velocity high-wage job growth in Oregon.
SB 1507 drafters failed to understand the mechanics of the Federal QSBS law as written, the
current state of the private capital markets and the mechanics of venture capital in Oregon. The
QSBS provision greatly over-estimates the revenue that would be generated in current and
future biennia. The vast majority of venture capital deployed in Oregon comes from California
and other states, whose investors will not be subject to this tax (but are included in the forecast).
Most Oregon based-investors are individual angels who write checks in the $25k-$250K range,
where the multiple millions come almost exclusively from out of state.
By our calculations, when out-of-state venture capital is subtracted, the QSBS provision is
funded on the backs of fewer than 1,000 Oregonians. Not only will the actual v. forecasted
dollars fall far short, this seems to us to be unfair and unsound tax policy with tremendous future
risk.
