Damien Hall 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Please veto SB 1507. HR-1 did a lot of damage to a lot of industries. Don’terase the sole silver lining (bonus depreciation) for small business growth Veto SB 1507. Increased business investment inequipment to spur growth in Oregon. Governor needs to veto SB 1507.Legislature is going to pass on party SIP Deregulate the power utilitymarketplace, expand the power No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and investment. This is short sighted and will reduce economic activity inOregon (and the State budget) in the next biennium. lines, based on reflexive opposition toHR-1. purchaser marketplace.
Zachary Steele 97338 Both Steele Insurance Agency Inc Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon tax structure hammers business owners. We need to be reducingtaxes not increasing them. I would immediately repeal and replacethe income tax. A sales tax is a tax on The state reduces its spending by 20 to30% and in turn lowers taxes. Business Legilature None Idaho, North Carolina, Texas. Each ofthese states have attracted employers No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services consumption and those of us whoconsume more pay more. But It would Owners have to adjust budgets torevenues and its high time Oregon from Oregon. We need to figure out howto retain and recruit new industry in our
reduce the capital load to havingemployees in Oregon. ends its tax and spend policies. state.
Andy 97401 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Eugene was once a beautiful little city, today it looks third-world. Every week(on camera) at my office in downtown I see people shooting drugs, passed Remove the handcuffs from the policeto enforce livability crimes and statutes An appropriate amount of homeless forthe population. Tax dollars being spent Local government and legislature. It'sNOT the employers fault, we are paying None of them. Stay out our (employers)way and everyone will thrive. There are many, most of which areconservative. That's where I'll be moving No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
out, defecating and urinating, trash everywhere. Eugene and Oregon as awhole are falling apart. I am a business owner with employees, we all pay that most people want. Shut downthese centers that attract transients to more wisely. Police and communityservice officers enforcing the laws and enough already. You're driving us away. soon.
a lot in taxes and I am not getting any close to what I am paying for. Bysummer, I will solidify my plan to move operations out of the state; like the area that aren't actually doinganything. They are transients, no "un- ordinances.
many others already have. homed" or whatever your word is now.They are NOT from here, I've asked
many of them. They are here for thefreebies. I have a drug counseling
center across the street from me,nobody is ever there but I'm sure they
are getting my tax dollars. What will itlook like when more businesses leave,
more people are jobless and yourcollecting even less tax dollars.
Businesses make a community thrive.You'll never be able to attract new
business in this current situation...never.
Jeff Nelson 97814 Organization/Business BMCC SBDC Public Business andProfessional NA 21-100 people Business climate With the political environment small businesses need clear messaging tohelp them plan for the future Maybe try to have a news feed with thecurrent news and trends Small businesses getting the newsthey need to succeed All Biz Oregon NA Yes Workforce NA In rural Oregon finding the workforce forsmall businesses is one of the biggest Incentives for workers in rural areas Tax breaks or rural businesses andemployee's saving money Legislature Minimum wage by region NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Malcolm Hodge 97214 Myself NA NA ServicesNA NA NA Business climate Oregon and Portland need a mindset shift to embrace small-and-midsized Create an easy to understand set of A program that worked to achieve these Governor, state legislature, City of NA Research triangle in North Carolina No NA NA challenges.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We have both an image problem and NA
businesses. Encourage and support entrepreneurs and family-ownedbusinesses. Minimize barriers to entry, and lower taxes and regulations. rules and regs to encourage businessformation and growth. Partner with goals. Portland, other cities, universities andbusiness organizations. an actual problem (i.e. the imageproblem is accurate). We can be
UO/OSU/PSU and other universities tocreate a statewide ecosystem that probusiness and not lose our values asa state. Businesses have to succeed
continuously spins out new, cuttingedge businesses. for the regional economy to thrive.
NA 97230 Both NA Private NA Manufacturing 21-100 people Business climate Taxes. Government Leadership. Lack of business support. Poor education.Homelessness. Add a sales tax, reduce the income taxand reduce the property tax. Eliminate Creation of new tax structure that leadsto a reduction in property and income Legislature, State Government,employers, public sector employees None. See above. Yes Tools for growth NA Business retention. Permitting. Taxeson capital expenditure improvements. Create a holistic, streamlined solutionwith ease of understanding for Stabilized exits from the state.Increased new businesses coming in Governor and the legislature. None. Look at any other state with theexception of California or Hawaii and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon has a reputation of a greatlocation to be homeless. We need to NA
the excessive taxes in MultnomahCounty. Get a new Governor who will taxes that makes the State andMultnomah county competitive with and citizens. Incentives. businesses on permitting, incentives,grants, to stay or move into Oregon. to Oregon. you will find programs that are workingfor current and new businesses. change this reputation and stop makingit easy to be homeless here. We need
address the crime, drug use,homelessness and failing Washington, Idaho, Arizona, Nevada,Wyoming, etc. Reduce inheritance taxes Transportation subsidies or atransportation network/program that to focus on recruiting citizens that willcontribute to the economy, not be a
infrastructure. Support the existingbusinesses in Oregon. Set up that keep driving retirees and high networth individuals out of the State. made it easier for manufacturingbusinesses to operate from drain on it and drive away new comers.
investment funds, grant programs andtax incentives to operate in Oregon. Reduced crime, homelessness, drugs.Improved infrastructure. geographically challenged Oregon.
New educational leadership. AbolishBiz Oregon and start over with a real
economic development program leadby business leaders, not career
David Officer 97035 Organization/Business Innovative Transports Corp. Private Business and NA 21-100 people Business climate Taxes are way too high. Oregon is currently anti business. government employees.Reduce regulation. Taxes should be Another 30% growth., All. Mostly govt. None. They just get in the way. Texas, Florida, Idaho all have good Yes Workforce NA To many proscribed state mandates. Go back 15 years and remove most Another8-10 enployees Govt None Idaho No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Get the govt off the back of business. NA
ProfessionalServices based on profit not revenue. business climates. added regulations on managing myemployers
Sara T 97224 Both NA Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate I would like the council to address the issue of Oregon businesses beingtaxed out of doing business in Oregon Quit imposing additional taxes on bothpersonal and business levels as a For business to stop leaving the stateand for Oregon to again be attractive for Taxes cannot be solution to everyproblem. We need to get back to I would like to see continued use oftrade programs, that are encouraged NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services solution to every problem new business to locate here basics and understand that we have tostart with the absolutely necessary from a High School level and thenconnected with path-to-work programs
functions of government and do awaywith programs that are not working or available in Community Colleges
don't address the fundamentals of athriving economy. State and local
governments need to document andprove how they are using resources in
the most efficient way.
Andrew McGough 97201 Both Worksystems, the PortlandMetro Workforce Non-profit NA WorkforceDevelopmen 21-100 people Workforce Complexity of governance and funding Consolidation of State agencyadministration, funding and programs. Streamlined administration, clarity ofroles and responsibilities, more Governor, state legislature, localelected officials, employers Prosperity Programs, SEDAF (withscrutiny), post secondary tuition Texas Workforce Commission,Colorado co-enrollment of labor No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We have great infrastructure to buildupon in local Workforce Development NA
Development Board t resources for direct services, increasedbusiness engagement and satisfaction, subsidies, enhanced childcare, generalfund investments in industry consortia exchange and secondary/postsecondary systems. Boards
improved outcomes (job placements,wages, retention and advancement). models
Amaya Urzaa 97201 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The biggest problem I see day to day is the tax burden on businesses andtheir highly-compensated employees in Multnomah County/Portland. Encourage the city and county to worktogether to reduce the tax burden by Business owners in Portland would bebreathing easier knowing that their Local governments I think the Business Oregon programsare helpful I like the things that the ProsperityCouncil has already discussed putting No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You're off to a good start. Keep at it! NA
streamlining administration (maybecombine the city and county customer base and employees havestopped fleeing the city and new affluent into place, so keep going with those.
governments?) to cut costs and provideexpected services in a timely and well- individuals are arriving.
executed fashion. Perhaps some stateoversight/auditing of budgets,
accounting, and program outcomes,together with robust data and state-level
pressure on reducing tax rates coulddrive the necessary changes?
Kentin Bigelow 97223 Both Genesis Web andMarketing, LLC Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Business Climate - Oregon's business climate could be described as"openly hostile", and Oregon is ranked as one of the worst states in the REDUCE TAXES. The cost of doingbusiness pushes owners out of the Oregon would rank in the top 10 statesto o business in. There needs to be a reduction inrestrictive policies. This is up to the NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You are forcing people to leave withtaxes that no one wants. Stop raising NA
Services nation as a place to do business. The main issue is the high cost ofbusiness operations due to Oregon's tax and employment policies. state, and those costs are also passeddown to consumers. legislature and local governments. money and instead CUT YOURBUDGET.
KENNY WANG 97266 Organization/Business PW International, Inc. Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The persistent proposal of new taxes to be imposed on businesses. Inaddition, to proposals to raid the SAIF reserve other than funds original Consider business impact beforeproposing new taxes. In the last 10-15 Create different levels of tiers for taxcollection with small businesses such This has to be a priority for the governor,legislature and local governments. The NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA None at this time NA
intended use. years, the state's business tax burdenhas grown exponentially. An example is as mom and pop's given a lowerburden then bigger companies. The level of tax levies is not sustainable forsmall businesses.
the Corporate Activity Tax. The accounthas swelled yet we have not seen state does not provide a friendlybusiness climate. I have contemplated
educational improvement. There's aserious lack of accountability. There often to moving over to Clark Countyand other states.
always seem to be proposals to dip intothat fund to cover budget shortfalls
outside of the original scope for the taximposition.
Samantha Shelley 97401 Both CannXperts Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The lack of leadership/balancing budget in Oregon and massive taxburdens are not only unfortunate but pushing businesses out of Oregon. Its ridiculous that there are budgetshortfalls, who is keeping tabs on the Clean up our cities and state. EnforceLaw and Order. Incentivize business At the top Kotek has to actually lead andlisten to the majority of the people in If they enforced No Camping Rules andallowed police to actually police and no Pretty much anything in Texas. Buildhomes, to make homes affordable! No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We're on our way out as soon as wecan from Oregon, which has lovely NA
Services P/L of our City and State? More taxingand higher pricing to live and work in owners to stay in Oregon with less taxburden and pride of living in Oregon. Oregon. Locally, the same thing has tohappen. Someone is making a ton of begging on streets, I think this would bea good start. Less red tape! No business tax! landscape but untenable politics that isdragging Oregon and its cities to trash.
Oregon pushes companies out. Thereis zero incentive to have the business in money and its not regular people andits disgusting.
Oregon anymore. I would like lesstaxes of course but also clean up
Oregon and top profiting off ofhomelessness! Get law and order back
in our cities and state!
Michael Rompa 97204 Both Geffen Mesher Private Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Business climate Business taxes and tax policy, the state is not a place that is working hardto retain existing businesses and attract new ones. Businesses are led by Reduce the tax burden on businessesand upper income individuals - they are New business formations, successfulrecruiting of out of state businesses, Everyone has a hand in this, but it muststart at the top. The Governor and Most of what I'm familiar with are smallprograms that really don't move the Economic development practices thatinvest heavily in the region with a long- Yes Tools for growth NA It is just hard to do business in Oregon.Too many regulations, too many cooks Streamline the system. As in ourbusiness we strive at all times "to make More permits issued for construction,increase in population due to attraction State and local governments need towork hand-in-hand to support a growth NA Many other communities have attractednew businesses by re-imagining their No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services people so its not just about business tax issues its also about personal taxissues as well the ones that are making decisionsabout hiring, growing, staying in Oregon Legislature need to lead work with localgovernments and finally engage needle - the state needs to make bigbets in order to get us out of this term focus. The area around the Port ofSavannah seems to have this focus in the kitchen, and far more expensivethan it should be. it easy for our clients to do businesswith us". This is not the case with state of new businesses strategy, but barriers to entry must beremoved - our state and local tax region, just look at where people aremoving.
or leaving. employers in solutions. Tax policy thatis led by and initiated by only the downward spiral and investment from the state. and local governments. policies must be reformed before any ofthis will work.
beneficiaries of the revenue collected isnot good policy.
Jacqueline Yvonne Lawson 97338 Both World Gym FunctionalMedicine and Wellness Private NA Health andFitness 1 - 20 people Business climate taxes Gas tax needs to go down; propertytaxes need to go down; $1. per gallon reduction in gas tax; 50%reduction in property and business legislature NA TX and FL Yes Tools for growth NA grant access; group insurance forbusinesses that little to no claims more grant opportunities withoutincreased cost to business owners; not sure more competition in the marketplace NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Tim McBratney 97224 Myself CenterNA NA NA NA NA Business climate We are too encumbered by regulations and high taxation. We are also Cut costs in Salem and lower taxes and taxesMore companies entering the state The Governor can do an executive order The carbon tax and the Metro tax for Red states like Texas and Florida who Yes Workforce NA Again, taxes are too high as is the cost See above A vibrant economy with new The Governor Not many Texas and Florida have lowered costs Yes Tools for growth High taxes, weird policies like sand A conservative Governor, not a radical A vibrant economy with both business A conservative Governor to win the next Not many Texas and Florida use common sense No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We need new leadership. The radical NA
paying a Metro tax, and I am doubtful that the funds are accounted for. regulations instead of departing and lower taxes and regulations starts. Not to mention the exorbitantgas taxes that we pay. Time to lower have lowered taxes and regulations andinvite businesses to enter that willingly of housing. Simply allow builders tobuild and allow creative ideas so that businesses entering and staying ANDhiring. Young people want an and lowered taxes with more proposalsto lower even more taxes boxes in bathrooms in Salem schoolsand 'math is racist' per the Oregon one and people moving here gubernatorial election with moreconservative house and Senate left needs to leave the state of Oregonto save it
those, too. do due to that. more, unique housing is available andaffordable. Then people will move here. opportunity for growth and upwardmobility Department of Education. members winning to get rid of our verysad super majority that has ruined the
once beautiful state of Oregon
Keith Leavitt 97756 Both I founded ConfluenceStrategies LLC focused on Private Business andProfessional Asconsultant - 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Lack of large industrial sites necessary to compete with other states fortraded sector/advanced manufacturing companies. A regional strategic site program thatprioritizes certain sites meeting A regional program is place. Eachregion has inventoried and aligned on Governor, Legislature, regionaleconomic development orgs. Business OR infrastructure programsincluding Regionally Significant Georgia Virginia Tennessee NorthCarolina Ohio No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Focus on how to implement therecommendations flowing from this NA
economic, industrialdevelopment and ports after Services work withprivate statewide strategic criteria. Thosehandful of site get priority for permitting, priority sites. State capex fund is inplace and pilot sites are underway. Industrial Site (RSIS) program. work.
long career working for thePort of Portland and State of industry andpublic site readiness funding...A portion ofincome tax revenue from
Oregon. sector ontraded jobs/investment on these sites goesback into a site readiness capital fund
sectorgrowth so it revolves and is sustainable.
Randy Miller 97221 Myself NA NA NA strategies.NA NA Business climate conventional belief that business is not a positive element to the state's a long term campaign to allow our far more people understand this view all of the above with a specific, none at the moment. Biz Oregon can many states have been successful in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I am available if I can be helpful! NA
health citizens that a healthy businesscommunity and wealth accumulation is organized campaign trigger this and unite other agencies,but we need a culture change there to illuminating the value of wealthaccumulation and business success.
a positive, not a negative. be successful. Many of these states have huge benefitfrom these companies and their
philanthropic generosity. Testimonialscan work!
Keith Bailey 97301 Organization/Business Taylor Metal Inc Private Metals andMachinery Construction 21-100 people Business climate High regulation and high taxes get rid of unnecessary regulations repeal many taxes and regulations oflast 20 years. Get Oregon into top 20 Legislature I cannot think of any. Lower taxes and regulation No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Business owners are not the enemy.Quit punishing us! NA
Georgia Conrad 97477 Organization/Business Oregon Workforce Non-profit Business and Workforce 1 - 20 people Workforce The primary challenge is the fragmentation of Oregon’s public workforce Modernize Executive Order 13-08: Issue states for investmentImproved National Standing: Oregon Governor’s Office: To issue the EO 13- The WorkSource Oregon Network: The Texas & Florida: These states No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 1. Tie Workforce Delivery to Economic OWPWorkforceRecommendations%20(
Partnership ProfessionalServices Development system, which creates friction for both employers and job seekers.Currently, resources—including WIOA, TANF Employment & Training (E&T), an "EO 13-08 ModernizationAddendum" that codifies the roles of moves from #23 into the top 10 statesin the CNBC "America’s Top States for 08 Modernization Addendum and directagency heads to form the Office of existing infrastructure of nine LWDBsand the WorkSource Oregon centers successfully administer TANF Choicesand SNAP E&T through their workforce "Fast-Track" Projects WorkforceExecution Plans: For any large-scale 1).pdf
and SNAP E&T—are administered through siloed agencies (HECC-OWI,OED, DHS, VR, BOLI, and Business Oregon), leading to uncoordinated Local Workforce Development Boards(LWDBs) as the accountable resource Business" Workforce category.Performance: A live Oregon Talent Unified Workforce System Performance.Legislature: To codify multi-partner The provides the essential platform forlocalized service delivery. WIOA commissions and local boards toimprove co-enrollment and outcomes. economic development projects fast-tracked under the Roadmap, the state
service delivery and a lack of unified performance reporting. This structuralinefficiency makes it difficult to align talent development with the specific coordinators and conveners for regionalsector partnerships. Establish an Dashboard tracks top jobs, credentialgaps, and regional equity metrics in policy authority, mandate interagencydata-sharing, and statutorily align Combined State Plan (2024-2028): Theframework already approved for system Colorado: The Colorado TalentDashboard serves as the model for should require formal WorkforceExecution Plans. Accountability: These
needs of growing industry sectors at the regional level. Office of Workforce SystemPerformance: Stand up a state-level real-time with unified quarterlyWorkSource metrics. Seamless TANF/SNAP E&T with WIOA in the 2027session. Local Workforce alignment provides the foundation forthese modernization efforts. Regional Oregon’s proposed unified data andperformance system. Michigan: The plans should be developed inpartnership with Local Workforce
office to unify policy implementation,performance management, and Delivery: Job seekers experience astreamlined "co-enrollment" process Development Boards (LWDBs): Toserve as the regional "conveners" and Solutions Program: This programremains critical for supporting unique PATH (Partnership. Accountability.Training. Hope.) program, co-run by Development Boards (LWDBs) toensure a guaranteed pipeline of talent,
reporting across all workforceagencies. Align TANF/SNAP E&T with across WIOA and TANF/SNAPprograms, while 100% of high school staff the new Regional IndustryCouncils. regional resources and talent pools DHHS and Michigan’s labordepartment, demonstrates effective training seats, and necessarysupportive services are ready as
WIOA: Pilot and eventually statutorilyauthorize the alignment of TANF and and post-secondary graduates areenrolled into the WorkSource Oregon cross-agency co-enrollment. projects break ground.Outreach Integration: We recommend Business
SNAP E&T with WIOA to create a "single-door" experience at WorkSource data system. fully integrating WorkSource Oregonbusiness services into Business
Oregon centers, utilizing shared intakeand co-funded support services. Oregon’s outreach and RegionalSolutions activities to provide a unified
Create Regional Industry Councils:Establish employer-led councils, "front door" for expanding companies.2. Implement Regional Industry
staffed by LWDBs, to consolidateindustry engagement across K-12, Councils (RICs) Single EmployerTable: To reduce "engagement fatigue"
community colleges, and universitiesinto a single table. for businesses, the state shouldempower LWDBs to staff and convene
Regional Industry Councils (RICs) forhigh-demand sectors like healthcare,
manufacturing, and IT.Feedback Loop: These councils would Curriculum
serve as the definitive regional table forindustry to articulate skill needs,
effectively streamlining engagementacross K-12, community colleges, and
Alex Carpenter 97013 Both Green Ridge Solar Inc Private Technology RenewableEnergy 21-100 people Business climate The biggest challenge is the cumulative burden of taxes, regulation, labormandates, and legal risk that make it difficult to operate and grow a I would focus on predictability andproportionality. This includes Success would mean businesses canforecast timelines and costs with The Legislature would need to addresstax structure, liability standards, and Renewable energy incentives, EnergyTrust programs, and workforce Other states have implemented faster,less invasive permitting systems with No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA universities.n addition to regulatory and taxconcerns, Oregon should take a 3. Leverage Data for NA
construction or energy business in Oregon. It is not one single policy, butthe overall cost and unpredictability of the system. Permitting timelines are enforceable statewide permittingtimelines, greater standardization confidence. Permitting times would bemeasurably reduced, regulatory statewide permitting expectations.Local governments would need to development initiatives are valuablebecause they create long term demand clear timelines and accountability.Some have simplified tax structures that broader look at structural cost driversthat impact long term competitiveness.
inconsistent and often slow, requirements vary between jurisdictions, andrules can shift mid-project. At the same time, Oregon’s tax structure is high across jurisdictions, and a review of thecumulative impact of regulatory guidance would be clearer and moreconsistent, and legal exposure for modernize and standardize permittingsystems. State regulatory agencies and support skilled trades.Apprenticeship and training are more competitive regionally andeasier to plan around. Several states Urban growth boundaries, whileoriginally intended to manage sprawl,
relative to neighboring states, and construction liability standards createsignificant exposure to litigation. The biggest friction point is unpredictability requirements on small and mid-sizedbusinesses. Tax policy should prioritize construction businesses would bemore balanced and predictable. Oregon should coordinate to reduce conflictinginterpretations and improve clarity. investments are especially important inconstruction and energy. Programs that have reformed construction defect andliability laws to better balance risk have significantly constrained landsupply and driven up the cost of real
combined with risk, which makes long term planning and investment moredifficult than it should be. competitiveness and long term stabilityrather than frequent adjustments. would see increased in-stateinvestment, fewer businesses Industry stakeholders should providedata and feedback to ensure reforms provide stable market signals andencourage investment should continue, between owners and contractors.Oregon can maintain strong estate for both housing and commercialdevelopment. Limited access to
Construction liability standards shouldbe reviewed to ensure they fairly considering relocation, and greaterconfidence among employers in reflect real world conditions. Thisrequires coordination across multiple as they help drive growth when pairedwith a workable regulatory environment. environmental and labor standardswhile adopting operational efficiencies buildable land increases costs foremployers and employees alike. Water
balance consumer protection withreasonable risk for contractors. The expanding operations. The state wouldmaintain its environmental and labor levels of government and the privatesector. that make it easier to build, invest, andgrow businesses here. availability, natural resource access,petroleum product manufacturing
goal is not deregulation, but a moreefficient and predictable operating values while becoming moreoperationally efficient. constraints, and increasingly stringentenvironmental standards also add
environment. layers of cost that make Oregon lesscompetitive compared to neighboring
and southern states. Meanwhile, manyother states are actively reducing taxes,
streamlining regulation, and positioningthemselves to attract business
investment. Oregon risks falling behindif it does not honestly evaluate how its
policies compare regionally.should also be a stronger emphasis on There
fiscal discipline and performanceaccountability. Public spending,
particularly on social programs, shouldbe evaluated based on measurable
outcomes and audited regularly foreffectiveness. If programs are not
Tom Hoffert 97301 Organization/Business Salem Area Chamber of Non-profit Business and Economic 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon ranks 47th in business friendliness (MSNBC 2025 poll), making Less government regulations and Less government regulations, specific State government, local government, Oregon's livability is attractive. Pro-economic development Yes Workforce NA Talent is leaving the state as we watch Less government regulations. Investing More companies coming to Oregon. Legislature, Governor's office, local Very little. Most "incentives" are for large States that promote economic No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA yielding results, funds should bereallocated to areas that directly supportWhere is your representation of small to NA
Commerce ProfessionalServices Advocacy recruiting and retaining businesses very challenging. complexities like permitting processes. to allowing businesses to expand andbuild employment base. elected officials and policy makers. investments and pared backregulations on business expansion. key employers depart due to corporatetax structure and regulations. in economic development, prioritizedinfrastructure, and let the workplace Less companies leaving Oregon.Simple. governments. tech manufacturing. Where is the focuson small to mid-size businesses and development and limiting regulationsare building their tax bases through mid-size businesses? There are noChamber of Commerce/ORLA/OBI
thrive and grow. their growth opportunities? employee growth (more people payingtaxes). representatives serving in a leadershipcapacity.
James Pliska 89105 Both Hospitality and FuelBusiness Public Food andBeverage Fuel, Hotel 101-500 people Business climate Regulations, high taxes Lower taxes and reduce regulations Expanding existing business along withupgrading present facilities along Legislature and local government Tax policies to be mirror the Federal taxdeductions Having a low income tax State withconservative government spending Yes Business climate Please give tax incentive to allManufacturing business big or NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
increased hiring and wages. small to attract or keep inOregon
Travis Dawson 97478 Both Cascade Automation Private Forestry andWood Products HeavyIndustrial 21-100 people Business climate The main issue that I would like to address is the manufacturing declinethat we have seen for decades in Oregon. The biggest barrier or friction is I would implement a robust, broad fasttrack permitting program for industrial Success would be a stabilization ofmanufacturing employment followed by The legislature with Governorsponsorship and signature The absence of a state sales tax. Texas and Georgia invest heavily in"shovel-ready" sites via funds for land No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As a lifelong Oregonian and smallbusiness owner employing 25 families NA
Support the regulation burden that these industries carry with business taxesrunning a close second. projects. Currently it is just way to slowwith unpredictable permitting. Next, I net gains of 1-3% annually. Reducedpermitting uncertainty and tax costs prep, utilities, and power infrastructure.This is critical for facilities needing who depend on me for their livelihoodand stability, I am deeply committed to
would provide targeted tax relief forcapital intensive heavy industry: expand would prevent further relocations orproject losses. 10-20 major heavy large parcels and reliable energy.Georgia and South Carolina lead this state. My wife and I have raisedthree adult children here, and like many
property tax exemptions, increase CATexemption threshold, restore R&D tax industrial expansions or new facilitiesannounced or breaking ground. Outside national rankings for fastest permittingspeeds, often processing large families, we hope they can buildmeaningful careers and lives in Oregon
credits and certainly avoid any newtaxes or reversal of federal aligned surge in private capital flowing inOregon. industrial projects in months rather thanyears. Texas, Tennessee and Florida rather than being forced to leave forbetter opportunities elsewhere.This
breaks. model of low tax across the board. vision is only achievable if ourlegislature adopts a responsible,
growth-oriented mindset—one thatprioritizes policies benefiting the many
Oregonians who work hard every day,not just a select few. We need balanced
reforms that reduce unnecessaryregulatory burdens, foster a competitive
tax environment, invest in workforcedevelopment and industrial readiness,
and support job-creating businesses ofall sizes, including small and family-
owned enterprises like mine.I urge theCouncil to champion these principles in
your recommendations to the Governorand legislature, ensuring Oregon
remains a place where families thrive,businesses grow, and our next
generation chooses to stay andcontribute.Thank you for your time and
for your work on Oregon's ProsperityRoadmap. I stand ready to support
Andrew Shirtcliff 97457 Both Shirtcliff Oil Co. Private Business and NA 101-500 people Business climate Excess taxes on businesses. Stop adding new taxes. A repeal of the clean fuels program. Legislature Saif Just do the opposite of California. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA efforts that put sustainable economicgrowth and broad-based opportunityStop wasting money on studies and NA
ProfessionalServices Saving drivers $.21 /gallon. ODOT usingthe funds they receive for basic services. surveys, and stop adding new taxes.
Sean Neary 97756 Both Fitch and Neary PC Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Taxes, government red tape Tax incentives, reduce taxes Businesses expanding or relocating toOregon Legislature and governor Enterprise Zones, other tax incentives NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Tax for business and individuals ismuch too high relative to the rest of the NA
Services country. Estate tax threshold is muchtoo low. Lots of wealthy retirees leaving
Dean Blades 97038 Both Triangle Design & Printing Public NA Printing 1 - 20 people Business climate Cost of doing business in this state. Continually creating new taxes or fees Reduce the tax and fee burden. Make it a thriving business community with Legislature, County, & Local I don't see any state programs helping Look at any conservative ran state. Yes Workforce NA Our education system is not providing a Overhaul our education system a complete overhaul of our education Legislature, county and local None!!! NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA the state and reducing the tax base.I think the prosperity council is a huge NA
are driving business away from the state. easier to work with governmentagencies by removing barriers to less government over reach andlowered tax burden. governments. my business. Oregon needs to become more fiscallyresponsible and help accountable for sustainable work force. We havestudents looking for jobs that can barely system that actually teaches our kidshow to be functioning free thinking government, school leadership andschool boards. waste of time and money because noone will end up following thru to see
business growth. tax payer money. We need to cutmassive amounts of waste in State read and write. They haven't beentaught how to function in a work adults, giving them the tools to becontributing members of society. real change happen. I have only seenconditions in this state get worse over
Government. We need to begin hiringreal business leaders at the state level. envirnoment. the last 8 years to the point of needingto make a decision whether I can afford
DEI Hires do not work. Governmentemployees need to be able to to keep my business in this state.Trying to grow my business here
proficiently do their job. continues to be a very real struggle.
Scott Delbridge 97038 Both Cowboy Coffee Inc Public Food andBeverage NA 21-100 people Business climate Oregon continues to use the vague understanding in the public abouttaxing "corporations" to tax us small business owners - the $150 annual Stop using corporations as a verbal wayof getting around raising taxes. Be I am retired military as well as abusiness owner. I cannot tell you how Start small - raise the inheritance tax toover $3m at least, pass legislation to I benefit in a small way from Veteranlicense plates and the small property I understand it costs money to run astate and I want to be proud of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You don't tax your way to prosperity.There is always a million great causes NA
plus CAT are just two of them. Also the inheritance $1m limit has not beenraised since 2006 and lawmakers know this because it makes up $350m honest and just do a sales tax tospread the wealth. The landowners, many friends of mine are leaving thestate due to runaway taxes and we are be honest that the CAT is a sales tax insheep's clothing. Pass legislation to tax but overall if it was not for family I toowould live in another state and so just infrastructure and roads and to knowwhatever I do pay is fair and balanced. to tax people making prosperity andgive it away. Focus on allowing us
of the state budget workers and corporations are taking thefull load of keeping our state running at the bottom of all states in what weoffer retired Veterans. So success is entice retirees to stay in Oregon. know we are here and helpless in theend to what you do for us or against us. Look at retirement, look at Veteranbenefits, look at educating yourselves taking the risk, hiring people, makingour communities more attractive to do
and we are too few to make even asound in the avalanche noise. more people stay in Oregon afterretired, the tax burden is evenly shared, It feels like Oregon demonizes wealthand wealth is a pretty low bar. Can we that you are attacking your energeticcitizens trying to make a difference what we do and focus on big ticketitems, roads, infrastructure, safety,
there are incentives for businesses tostay and grow rather than looked at as do better at representativesrepresenting all of us rather than the few when you say you are attacking Niketype corporations only. I would love to education and share the taxation of ourcitizens more equally. We all have a
the only one to poke who are helpless. say why move to another state, Oregonis fair and it is the best place to live. share in making Oregon better.
Keith Leavitt 97756 Both Confluence Strategies LLC Private Business andProfessional Consultingfirm focused 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Industrial site readiness Modern statewide program focused onstrategic sites that are critical to Each region in Oregon has thetechnical tools to inventory, assess All of the above at regional level andstate. RSIS is helpful but extremely limitedand under funded. Infrastructure Many other states have very goodindustrial programs. Georgia, Virginia, Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services on trade,industrial growing advanced manufacturing andtraded sector industries. readiness and identify high prioritysites. Funding and regulatory tools to programs at Bus OR are also helpful. North Carolina, Ohio are all very good insemiconductor and advanced
andeconomic bring sites in the program to marketreadiness. manufacturing and offer good tools forOregon to consider.
development
KENT GARDNER 97123 Both RFM Seating in Hillsboro,Oregon Private Business andProfessional Ergonomicseating 21-100 people Business climate Oregon does not do enough to promote and support local manufacturing. I would like to see the State, whichhistorically has been a great customer, Our sales returning to pre-Covidnumbers. Local governments We have found no programs thatspecifically benefit small non-minority Providing a forum for localmanufacturers to meet with State No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We are struggling to compete withcheap foreign competition despite the NA
Services manufacturer purchase more of our chairs as theyhave in past years and help us promote owned businesses. procurement officers and largeemployers to introduce and discuss our tariffs, which hinder more than help us.
our products to major employers inOregon. superior ergonomic seating products.
Kaye Youngren 97214 Organization/Business Community Management,Inc. Private Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Business climate Taxes and regulations Stop adding business taxes, hiddenfees (CAT), gasoline taxes, State Taxes. Making my own decisions for acompany that I started and have owned Truly caring about small businessowners who are impacted by your None. Not California or Washington. You donot have to model any other State, just No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You are driving us out of Oregon. Ourreal property taxes are excessive; heath NA
Services for 53 years. regulations and taxes. Caring aboutfamilies who cannot afford housing, stop spending and then saying youhave no money so the only solution is to care premiums are over $750 perperson. Corporate taxes are among the
health care and groceries. The basics. add more taxes. highest in the Nation. Do you have any"common" people on the council or is it
just big business and notable names?We need common sense.
Larry Martin 97306 Both A-dec Private NA MedicalDevice 1000+ people Business climate Overall, Oregon is considered to be very anti-business due to taxationpolicies, lack of growth incentives, and increasing employee regulations Rather than reinvent the wheel, I wouldlook at the pro-business states (i.e. We see businesses flocking to Oregondue to a change in business friendly Legislature primarily, but also localgovernments such as Multnomah Most programs and policies are nothelpful to business or creating jobs. Have not had time to research this butthe business friendly, high growth Yes Workforce NA The universities in Oregon are notincentivized well enough to orient Provide more guidance to high schoolstudents - promoting college or trade More graduates from universities andtrade schools that are oriented to the (1) legislature to provide incentives, (2)universities to rethink how they are As I mentioned before, MECOP atOregon State is a great program that NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon has a long and storied historyof technology, creative design, and NA
Design/Manufacturer that erode profitability. Texas, Utah, Idaho) that are growingand taking businesses away from policies and establish ourselves astechnology centers of excellence - and county that impose taxation, fees, etc.that are overly burdensome for Creating wage earning jobs, revivingthe trades, and providing education that states are well known. It wouldn't takemuch effort to determine why and what students to degrees that havecommensurate jobs upon graduation. schools as equally valuable options.But also connecting the education they'll needs of local businesses. MECOP atOSU is a great legacy model to study on preparing the future workforce forrelevancy and job creation in Oregon has been around since the late 80s thathas placed thousands of graduates into small manufacturing, but in my 30 yearcareer, I've seen all three of these areas
Oregon and determine what bestpractices we should consider to keep revive our dwindling manufacturingbase. companies that are located within thatcounty. Partnering more with OSU and leads to actual jobs, would have a longterm/game-changing impact on the is common across those states interms of legislation and pro-growth, pro- Too many students are taking on sixfigures in debt, earning BA degrees, receive to actual jobs and salariesavailable to them on the other side of how this could be done and multipliedacross other education institutions. and (3) local businesses willing topartner with education institutions to high earning jobs - with a strong probusiness partnership model. CTEC is atrophy (taking jobs with it). As we thinkabout the future, in addition to reviving
our businesses in Oregon - growingand thriving. UofO with local business to createinnovation centers and future of this state. In my opinion, weare overly indexed on providing free business policies. and then working for minimum wage.In contrast, the BS degrees are their continued education so they aremore informed and less surprised to provide jobs for graduates. another great program, focused moreon the Trades and high school students. these areas, perhaps we also thinkabout future areas of growth - i.e.
incubators/accelerators for start-upscould also help usher in a "new silicon programs vs. education/wage earningjobs that raise all boats and income churning out engineers, scientists, etc.that have immediate application for find themselves in debt with a job thatdoes not allow them to get ahead. bioscience, clean energy, data centers,robotics, etc. and establish Oregon as
valley" located in the willamette valley. levels. In my opinion, we need morebalance. most businesses in Oregon. We alsohave a lack of focus on the Trade the "place to be" to also create thefuture!
schools - many high school studentsare not prepared for college nor should
all attend college. Developing a tradeskill should be an equally valuable
accomplishment.
Charles Niderost 97426 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate 1.Oregon’s business tax burden has risen significantly in recent years,including new taxes like the Corporate Activity Tax (CAT) and Paid Leave Lower tax burdens and simplify thestructure. Reducing or restructuring the Lower and simpler taxes can retainbusinesses, attract investment, and The entire State Government There has yet been one that I think hasbeen beneficial for the entire state, just I think Florida getting rid of Property Taxfor individual owners of their primary No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop following Washington andCalifornia to their doom, we are not the NA
Oregon, which many businesses say increases costs and complexity. Itscorporate tax environment ranks near the bottom nationwide. 2.Income tax CAT to lessen its impact on high-volume, low-margin businesses. reduce compliance costs. the largest counties may see they arebeing benefited. Small towns across residence would be beneficial. That wayyou feel like you actually own the land same and we need to trim the fat on ourGovernmental bloat until we find the
and regulatory fees are seen as deterrents to investment compared toother states. 3.Many businesses report that rules change too frequently Revising corporate and personal taxprovisions to be more competitive with the state are being destroyed. and home you paid for. best solution for Oregon to truly prosper.
and are hard to follow, creating compliance headaches and costs.4.Regulations around land development, planning, employment, and neighboring states. Requiring thorougheconomic impact analysis before new
environmental goals are often cited as barriers, especially for smallbusinesses. 5.Housing affordability problems make it difficult to attract or regulations. Encourage fasterpermitting for housing and commercial
retain workers, which businesses view as part of the economic climatechallenge. 6.Oregon struggles with labor shortages in many sectors. A projects.
higher cost of living and migration patterns contribute to workforcetightness, especially outside urban hubs. 7.Streamlining permitting and
rulemaking processes. 8.Oregon’s overall government spending and taxrevenue have grown faster than its population — and spending now takes a
larger share of state GDP compared with a decade ago. 9.Even if the statebudget ends in surplus, many counties and cities across Oregon face
deficits, forcing cuts to public services like law enforcement, roadmaintenance, and health services. This reflects a broader local fiscal strain
partly rooted in historical tax limits at the local level that have constrainedrevenue growth. 10.
Brad Johnson 97471 Both Umpqua Basin Water Private NA Water Utility 1 - 20 people Business climate The Governor portion in the Governor's Prosperity Council Replace the Governor and all thatsurround her with people that actually Watching all of Oregon become aprosperous state with positive All forms and sectors of Government.Such as DEQ, OHA, WRD, ODOT, all of NONE. Oregon is to busy trying to taxthe people of Oregon into oblivion. They Less taxation and better representation.Look at Florida or North/South Carolina. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Help target the replacement of 85% ofeveryone that represents this state with NA
care about the workforce and thebusiness climate here in Oregon. Take business climate. Less Taxation andbetter representation for the people of Oregon's Judaical systems and more.Even County governments need to are to focused on "From each accordingto his ability, to each according to his When you have people move fromOregon to Washington, YOU GOT A people who have NO self or specialinterests. If a person has a special
out all of the special interest liberalpeople and policies. Bring back an Oregon as a whole and not just theclimate in the Portland area. become more business friendly and notfocused on taxation. needs". PROBLEM!!! interests or agenda, replace them. Stoplooking at the NW part of the state. ALL
environment that is targeted withprosperity, and positive growth. of Oregon must thrive or Oregon willbecome a National Park.
Harold Owen Foutz 97487 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Business taxes - between property taxes (real and personal), state incometaxes, sales taxes (corporate activity tax), transportation taxes (Trimet and Eliminate the Corporate Activity Tax.This tax assessed on sales even if the Eliminate the corporate activity tax. Thiswill go a long way to encouraging Legislature and governor. ODOT, State police, State parks. Be more business friendly. Withoutsuccessful businesses, our economy No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Businesses are not the enemy. Theyare not even a necessary evil. NA
LTD), local taxes (Portland/Multnomah County business taxes, Metro taxes,etc.), it is just too much. We are making it difficult for businesses to stay in company has a net loss for the year.This is unfair to the corporations, but businesses to stay in Oregon. will crumble. Businesses are the engines of theeconomy
Oregon, let alone relocate to Oregon. even more unfair to the consumers,who end up paying for this tax through
increased prices on goods andservices.
Bettina Schempf 97333-1768 Both Old Mill Center for Childrenand Families Non-profit NA SocialServices, 21-100 people Business climate Cost of compliance for housing developments that create affordableworkforce housing Increase workforce housing that has aprivate/public partnership Significant increase in higher densityworkforce housing in urban areas; legislature; local governments SDC waivers; waivers for prevailingwages in affordable home/unit NA Yes Workforce NA Cost and availability of Childcare -particularly for children 0-5 years old Free childcare for all children 0-2 yearsolf; subsidized childcare for children 3-5 parent engagement in workforceincreases legislator ; local government ERDC - expand into new areas free childcare in other states Yes Workforce Workforce shortages in early childhood,behavioral health and occupational Better integration of the educationalpathways for these professions; Increase of graduates from theseprograms; increase in Community legislators; education/training partners;employers OHA based supports for employerswho hire for these positions - expand to NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Consider Not for Profit organizations asan important partner in this work - they NA
Health, EarlyChildhood public land available for workforcehosuing developers with land construction years old health for children student loan forgiveness plans forthese high demand professions college based programs with lowerentry barrires and increased internship education employee 20% of the workforce inOregon, mostly in people driven
Education ownership remaining in publicownership to support long term opportunities; industries
Ralph Cole 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes. Our tax rates in the city of Portland are suffocating, and we receive Remove the pre-school for all tax. Huge affordabilityActual businesses moving to Portland Legislature and local governments. Actually deliver on the promises that Copy early reading and math Yes Tools for growth NA We declared a housing emergency in remove inclusionary zoning. More housing. Legislature and local governments. NA It appears that Minneapolis has the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Take a look at what a democratic mayor NA
literally no value for them. money grab for a redundant program. and Multnomah county and not out of. you've made over the years, withoutcontinually raising taxes. Make our intervention from other states so thatour students can read by 3rd grade, and Portland in 2015. Literally nothing hasbeen accomplished by government. ability to build housing. I would notfocus on West Coast cities for housing. in San Francisco is accomplishing in acity as liberal as ours. Focus on safety
schools functioning again, and not inthe bottom 5 would be a start. Quit do math by 4th grade. Get out of the way, make it easier tobuild and faster. Quit talking about it and getting people off the streets. Quitletting Trump take your eye off the ball.
adding programs. and do something.
Jon Legarza 97070 Organization/Business We provide professionalservice to cities, counties, Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Availability of land and infrastructure funding. If we keep the same land usestatues and polices we are going to continue to lose companies and not We need to change our land useplanning system. This model is Abolish the current ugb structure. Weneed supply in the market place. The legislature has to implementchanges. I think we need to revisit and revamp all90 programs. Look at Utah, Washington, Arizona. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ports, businesses to assistwith economic development. Services attract anymore. outdated and we are wastingthousands of dollars with cities and
counties not focusing on developmentareas. We have thousand of acres of
land in Oregon and constraints to asmall corridor.
Marv Nelson 97132 Both A-dec Private Metals andMachinery Medicaldevice 1000+ people Tools for growth Regulation and tax burden.and a significant decline in Oregon's reputation. Access to talent with people leaving the state Make Oregon more attractive forbusiness and for people to relocate to Oregon's reputation has been healedand policy changes have been enacted All noted in the question Not many. Most the programs andpolicies are a money grab without much There are many.Oregon need to look at other states that The leaders in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Get to focusing on a just a few initiativeswhere we can measure progress. I NA
manufacturer the state to raise a family. to improve the business climate andaffordability. benefit to hard working residents.focusing programs to support losing Quit are successful like Arizona, Utah,Nevada etc. also believe workforce and growth areimportant and many of the same issues
causes.education, and hard working families. Focus programs on children, with business climate cross over toworkforce and growth.
Brandie Foster 97756 Both Real Estate Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Workforce Affordable housing for general workforce: teachers, mail carriers, firefighters, support staff in the hospital (non-pro staff) Education needs to be free or mostlyfree in oregon. Yes I know. Healthcare If folks could access education andhealth care, we would not need to Right now education and health careare both "for profit" industries. So that is I love the free two years at a communitycollege after high school, sadly, we Zero. I know other states have tried thenurse navigator programs in medical No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As my spouse and I look at retiring inthe next 10 years, we are not NA
Services needs to be free or mostly free inOregon. increase minimum wage or build somuch affordable housing, that honestly, a re-work at the legislative level. Clearly,boundaries would need to be set so don't have enough vocational programstied to CC. Like trades (plumber, clinics, but it doesn't "make money" inthe current system. I am looking at other considering Oregon, or even the US.We do have enough to retire here, but
those folks don't seem to want. Havingaccess to health care would provide everyone doesn't move here. Educationis the path way out of poverty and the electrician, radio). Medicare, Medicaidand VA benefits could be expanded to countries. Yes, I have been to manyother countries and with RN can do so much better elsewhere. Ithink lots of small businesses have this
preventative care and reduce costs allaround. pathway to better health outcomes(retired RN). all folks with payment tiers, includingrestrictions on medical procedures that background, I have poked deeply intothe pros and cons of such systems. conversation and I wonder if it keeps"the brains" from moving to Oregon.
don't work. The benefits outweigh the costs.
