Troy Gagliano 97267 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Permitting times must be reduced and staff need to focus on practicalmatters. NA NA legislature for some permitting (e.g.,Dept of Energy for energy project NA NA Yes Tools for growth NA Having reasonable discussions andconsiderations when it comes to Stop paying too much attention tointerest groups who do not understand Oregon has thousands of acres ofcontiguous parcels ready in places NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop the constant kumbaya for neverending input and make decisions. NA
siting/permitting) and localgovernments for building permits. industrial land readiness. that numerous small parcels that equalmaybe 1,000 acres is useless for where businesses need them. Weigh the importance of commentsfrom folks who may live many counties
business. Parcels need to becontiguous and that is critical for site away compared to those of localresidents.
readiness. Do we really need moreacres to grow grass seed when a few
hundred acres being used to build abusiness or plant that may employ
hundreds could use that same land?
Stacey Pelster 97123 Both Mr. Electric of Hillsboro,Beaverton-Tigard, Private Business andProfessional NA 21-100 people Business climate Every time we turn our heads, the legislature is creating a new "emergency"tax to burden our businesses. From the Corporate Activity Tax which taxed We have spoken with many otherbusinesses in the area, and all concur More businesses will be coming intothe state. Businesses hiring more Legislature needs to overturn somelegislation. Employers will react I cannot see any because all I see areprograms that increase our tax burden, NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
McMinnville & Salem. I alsorepresent Assurance Services our GROSS revenue irregardless of whether we netted revenue or not, tothe new legislation being pushed through that removes tax incentives for that the taxation needs to come to agrinding halt, and there need to be employees vs. decreasing. accordingly. not help us to grow.
Property Management LLC. small businesses, it is making the state climate very hostile forbusinesses. more small business INCENTIVES tobring businesses back, or to encourage
businesses remaining to grow in ourstate. These cannot just be for large
corporate structures. They already havemore tax incentives than the small
business owner. These incentivesneed to be for ALL businesses
irregardless of size. This includesminimum wage increases, which
disincentivizes employers from hiringworkers, and pushes towards
elimination of positions andmechanization of roles once done by
people (see fast food for proof of that)In our mainstay industries such as
timber and water, this would meanopening instead of restricting.
Steve Krautscheid 97007 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Somehow stimulate support of small businesses, the backbones of ourcommunity. Many are disadvantaged, particularly to fewer visits related to Small business grants to helpstimulate growth. Not to pay for staff but Thriving small businesses feeding athriving economy. All Tourism grants Social media posts for Montana, Utah,Idaho showing the lifestyle Yes Workforce NA We spend a lot of time talking aboutcareer readiness with high school Vocational education focusedspecifically on marginalized youth and Higher graduation rates, more satisfiedhigh school graduates. All Funding for school career education,but needs to be more focused on those vocational programs, welding,apprenticeships, etc. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Glad this Council is looking atopportunities. A lot in the news lately NA
ICE concerns. to do things that will expand theirbusiness. characteristics within their communities. students but still struggle reachingthose who are less likely to graduate, those who struggle or graduate late.Get them interested in vocations, falling through the cracks. about overtaxed and overregulatedbusinesses. I feel this will be important
struggling in school, poor decisionmakers, etc. community college diplomas, etc. Theself-motivated kids will find their way to address to be successful.
with minimal guidance. What can wedo for the others?
Catherine Ciarlo 97214 Both Metro Public NA Government- planning 21-100 people Tools for growth Comprehensive, transparent review of barriers to job creation andindustrial development. Land availability is one challenge and needs to be A series of facilitated conversationsabout how statewide growth An agreed-upon set of land use systemreforms that the business community A series of skillfully facilitatedconversations among public and private - Oregon's land use system (based onSB 100) needs updating but provides NA Yes Business climate NA Statewide tax structure Lay the groundwork for addressing theinequities and inefficiency that arises A clear framework of tax system fixes atthe state and local level that improve All of the above - but work would need tobe done by an expert group of people NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The conversation about jobs andeconomy in our state is critically NA
anddevelopment addressed - but if we let it eclipse other barriers (e.g. permitting timelines,workforce availability and training, state tax structure) we are unlikely to management laws and policy shouldevolve to meet current needs. These and environmental advocates can allget behind, even if there is not 100% sector leaders where people aroundthe table truly listen to one another and an important foundation for growthmanagement that builds on our state's due to Oregon's lack of a statewidesales tax Oregon's ability to provide broad-basedfunding for services, education and with diverse experience to developproposals and engagement strategies important - but an us/them, business v.environment framing of that
unlock development. And if we focus exclusively on land use we run the riskof undermining several of Oregon's important strengths without actually conversations should be grounded indata and set the stage to move beyond support on either side. An importantcorollary outcome is shared develop shared recommendations foradditional research, policy change, and strengths - The Governor's ProsperityCouncil is a welcome addition to the infrastructure without burdening specificgroups (including businesses and that help Oregonians understand howthese changes can benefit them conversation alienates the people (onboth sides) who will need to support
solving the problem we are chasing. "talking point" arguments (whether proor con) with respect to the current commitment a set of actions beyondland use reforms that address tax political support for hard moves like taxreform and infrastructure funding leadership landscape, and offers anopportunity to move beyond the pro and higher earners in certain geographiclocations) in a way that undermines new ideas and solutions.
system. structure, infrastructure costs anddevelopment delays. con talking points about Oregon's landuse system and truly develop shared their willingness to remain/invest/growin our state.
solutions that people with a wide varietyof perspectives can support
John Sweet 97420 Both Coos County Public NA CountyGovernment 101-500 people Business climate Over-regulation, business unfriendly tax policies, seemingly endless legalappeals Reduce regulation, revise tax policies,restrict appeals Reduced regulation, revised tax policies(to include a tax on consumption, limits Largely the state legislature NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
barbara Snyder 97411 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate There is no economic direction in the state. There should be incentives for The last economic development plan on appealsThere would be a state level economic All of the above. In my opinion, the state I think the Main Street Program is I mentioned Arizona has done an Yes Workforce NA There are few talented employees in The state's economic plan should Once again, there needs to be a plan All of the above... please be better at The community colleges and Maricopa Community College District in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
the desired economic drivers. Right now, there are only disincentives. was in 2005. Arizona has a robusteconomic plan and they have development department, andpartnership with business leadership is not working well with businesspartners which is why headquarters are helpful. The Travel Oregon programsand tourism programs are very helpful. excellent job since 2009 of diversifyingtheir economy. This has taken the rural areas -- and talentedemployees tend to move to cities. A leverage the rural area's strengths foreconomic development (not just for the desired business developmentclusters (not just tourism and retail). partnering. universities are very good. Arizona is one of the best in the countryfor partnering with businesses and
developed in those areas that theydesired. They used to be mostly a organizations. There would' be toolkitsfor the desired businesses, including leaving Oregon. Many smallbusinesses fail here. Education and These should be models for theeconomic development plan, only move planning, partnership, talent, politicalwill, and incentives. skilled workforce is one of the reasonsbusinesses can move to a rural area. tourism!) and plan to help developskilled workers that can either work There need to be incentives forindividuals to re-skill to new industry industry in order to upskill the workforce.
construction economy --- Oregon needsto look at other states that are real estate developers and managersto ensure that there is physical space, training does not necessarily match thedesired business needs. away from only tourism and look atsome of the business clusters that remotely or can support a businesslocating to the rural area. jobs.
succeeding in economic developmentin terms of creating a business and also workforce development toensure that there are skilled workers. should be priorities such as healthcare.
environment for the desired businessclusters. For example -- healthcare is There would be tax incentives to bringthe 'right' businesses to Oregon.
supposed to be universal access herebut healthcare is not succeeding in
Oregon. Oregon does not have a plan.
Jennifer Wakayama 97015 Both I am a broker (400+clients)and business owner of a Private Business andProfessional Construction 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon is falling behind, states are recruiting/targeting our employers withsuccess. Who are we recruiting TO our wonderful State? Oregon is Attract and retain the talent out of OSUand UofO. Capitalize on the footwear, Downtown pdx thriving. Restaurantsare open for lunch and dinner; they can City of Portland.has gotten us here. Look at Gresham, Lack of leadership I appreciate the social programs, butthere are way too many of them. We are Cleveland TN has a ZERO barrier tobusiness entry. Pay $35 and your in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Keep up the commercials on why welove Oregon. Native Oregonian 52 NA
mfg business in Portland inthe construction space. Services competing for talent, talent is moving out of our State as is our youth.Construction is way down and opportunities aren't presenting themselves womens sports, athletic/footwearindustries attracting more vendors that staff the entire day. Commercial realestate thriving, small business owners look at Bend, they are thriving --take alesson from their playbook; they are attracting the wrong demographic rightnow. business! years and I want to retire here; retain thegood you have and remember what
to our under 26 demographic; they are moving to neighboring states-Idaho,AZ and Tx; even Vancouver WA is getting in on the action. support that ecostructure. Reduce thetime and $$ needed to permit a project! feel heard. Vandalism stopped. 110year old businesses(sheridan) have a doing the exact opposite of Portland. made Oregon special. Smallbusiness/blue collar/hard working
This is a no brainer, this is a revenuegenerating department? Make Oregon chance to make it to 115 citizens are the backbone of oureconomy. Bring back affordability.
a business friendly state; quiteprioritizing the $$ you get from Feds on
homeless; that cycle is over.
Firiel Severns 97322 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Making Oregon a more accessible place for people to do business, insteadof moving their business out of the state . Incentives and making it an easierprocess. As a former employee of a Businesses opening in Oregon.Established business in Oregon All of the above NA Incentives, recruitment, fewer hoops tojump through No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I don't have a solution orrecommendation, but drug addicts and NA
Chamber of Commerce, I heard overand over form business owners how staying here. Businesses moving toOregon. homelessness is ruining our state.
difficult it is to do business in Oregon.Business is the backbone of our
communities. We need businesses toprovide jobs, to support non-profits that
are trying to solve social issues, andpay taxes which helps with everything
else.
Gary Mortensen 97114 Both Stoller Wine Group Private Food andBeverage Wineries &Vineyards 101-500 people Business climate There seem to be a big disinterest on the Oregon wine industry coming outof Salem recently, exemplified by the recent anti-alcohol messaging from Putting personal favorites who do nothave the deep experience or strategic A more business-friendlyadministration, in general, and an All of the above, led by the Governor,and a deeper bench of more The non-partisan Wine Caucus. States like California understand theeconomic value of their wine industry No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon has become infamous for it'santi business climate. As a lifelong NA
the OHA, land use and taxation, ag overtime and most egregiously the newEPR. Previous administrations have always felt supportive to our industry, insight to help champion our entireindustry only reinforces the perception actual effort to understand, assist andsupport our industry as we undergo one experienced task force members whohas the track-record to assist. and don't try to destroy it with initiativeslike Rethink the Drink. Oregonian, I'm ashamed of thisperception. It has to change. Endless
championing it with pride. This administration does not. I worry thatpersonal interests are taking priority over what is key economic driver for that our real-world challenges are notbeing taken seriously. of the most significant downturns in ourhistory. taxation initiatives will only acceleratethe failure of our once great state. Last
this state. year we wrote a check for $76,000 tofund a half-baked, punitive EPR
program. That money is the equivalentof putting a full-time person to work,
with benefits. This year, the numbercould double. You can do the math. For
what? This is the kinds of initiatives thatwill only cripple an already damaged
economy.
Domonic Biggi 97210 Organization/Business Beaverton Foods, Inc. Private Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Business climate Taxes that are levied and don't actually solve the stated purposes Would set standards. Publishaccountability measures and practices. Stabilize the tax base that has causeduncertainty. Make Oregon more Has to be everyone. Must start with thegovernor and legislature State back revenue bonds, Opportunityzones, Enterprise zones. Seen states that embrace currentindustries and support existing Yes Tools for growth Land Use Existing policy is 50 plus years old.Needs a vigorous review for todays and Enable more local production ofcommodities. State revenues would increaseexponationally from thoughtful value Legislature None Love Oregon's system. Makes us thinkabout development and growth. But it is No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services Establish non-partisan private oversightboards completive in the Regional and Nationalarenas business growth tomorrow economies. added manufacturing not designed for our future.
Laura Butner 97321 Both TMI Lending, LLC Private Business andProfessional PrivateMoney 1 - 20 people Business climate More regulation and ambiguity in the laws than any other State Less government interference Providing small businesses more taxincentives and limiting government Legislature & Local Governments Can't think of one Lower tax rates for businesses No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Running out large businesses such asDutch bro's, Nike, Wells Fargo, Intel and NA
Services Loans interference and over sight so many more while giving huge taxbreaks to data centers that deplete our
resources and don't provide many jobsis insanity and it shouldn't take a whole
committee to realize that.
Erik Adair 97140 Both City of Sherwood Public NA government 101-500 people Business climate Welcoming state, move up dramatically in rankings. New brandingmarketing strategy "wide open for business" expand industrial site What I said above, make a seriousinvestment in Industrial Site Readiness 1. Prosperity officer and council hassuccessfully recruited 2-3 major tech legislature, and governor Enterprise Zones (and increasedeligibilty and changes) Industrial Site Look at Texas or North Carolina. Cash,recruitment office, welcoming fund to Yes Workforce Statewide ApprenticeshipProgram Pathway Make Statewide apprenticeshipprogram accessable and replicable to Most other US states have a state widegovernor sponsored or directed Have an Oregon State ApprenticeshipOffice under the governors direction. Governor and legislature --> easilyallow local cities and school districts to None exists - model Hillsboro'sapprenticeship and workforce program. Colorado:https://apprenticeship.colorado.gov/ No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Thats all for now NA
readiness to 100m then 200m then 300m annually. More FDI outreach andmarketing, give Business Oregon more money and tools. Without these fund. Honestly $40m will not do a singlething to move the needle. And get firms or advanced manufacturing tolocate campuses or production to Readiness fund (with seriousexpansions to fund from lottery dollars) host groups and companies,abatement offers, incentives. improve our job pathways for studentsand new workers and most of all help apprenticeship program. We havenothing formalized in the State of setup. Its hard and cumbersome andyou need an elected official to go to bat Make a State Office or agency simplepathway to setup. We work with BOLI most other states have them.
things, there will be continued loss of jobs and prosperity and doom loopwith less jobs to fund Oregon general fund. serious on cash or abatementincentives and give cities more options Oregon creating 4-6,00 new jobs.(aerospace, defense, tech, robotics- industry to get the right people. Oregon. For Advanced Manufacturingwhich is the lifeblood of the Oregon for you to help get it up and running.Costs and manpower to setup are high. and many other agencies to figure outbut its like inventing the wheel.
and tools. Expand Enterprise zonecensus track elegibility to include MORE automation, clean tech or electronics).High paying jobs. 2. We are in the top Economy, apprenticeships are crucialto get students interested and also Hillsboro is the only one in the state foradvanced manufacturing
cities, not just less incomecommunities as sometimes 10 of US states for business attraction.Lower taxes for companies, attractive ABLE to to on the job training. Make iteasier for cities and school districts to apprenticeship program that i know ofin Oregon. We have consulted with
companies don't want to locate to theseareas for worker base, schools, etc. We incentive structure, state and localhandholding committees, red carpet establish through BOLI and look atColorado or 30+ other states that have them.
have no ability to get an enterprise zonein Sherwood despite having some of committee.Land Use Laws in Oregon to be more 2. We have changed our these programs in place.
the best industrial land and over 2million sq feet of flex industrial space flexible and focused on the 21st realityof where we are now. We are not the
available NOW! .other succesful states and get bold and Look to Texas and state we were in 1971 and these lawsmay not help our future growth or do any
creative on how you market, sell, recruitand incentivize companies. Payroll tax good services to us.improved Port facilities with Cargo 3. We have
holidays, no tax on profits for first 5years, whatever it is we are losing, and going in and our of T2 at a larger scalethan it is now. 4. We have a better
losing big. Trust me if we don't dosomething now we are basically logistics and transportation system andhave moved forward and are
doomed as a state economically. Thisis nearly dire straights now. Further constructing the CRC.implemented high touch state recruiting 5. Have
invest in Chip and Semi funding forexpansion. (governor or high official involved) andcash incentives and cash abatements,
state wide.. This needs to be done itsnot a givaway to rich corporations, it
allows our tax base to thrive andeventually fund or state program and tax
Rick Osborn 97420 Both Blue Ridge Strategies Private Business and Public Affairs 1 - 20 people Business climate We absolutely need two fundamental attitude changes in this state. 1. We I would like to see the PCIP project coffers.general budget allocation perhaps notSuccess would look like a project ready 6. Change state tax system This takes the Legislature, Business Enterprise Zones are really important, 100 Percent Fish is a wonderful way to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Oregon Coast VisitorsAssociation Pacific Coast ProfessionalServices need to be focusing more on projects around the state that spur economicdevelopment, such as the Pacific Coast Intermodal Port. We can have used as a pilot project for processstreamlining. I'd like to see a more to be built on the Coos Bay waterfront.We would have 100 Percent Fish Oregon, DEQ, the Governor, communitycollege, workforce training, economic as well as grants to help spur clustersof industry development in communities build out a coastal economy with fishwaste by encouraging, subsidizing and
Intermodal Port major shipping developments in Portland AND Coos Bay while continuingto maintain our traditional fishing ports on the coast. Every region needs to open ear to development in ruralcommunities. We aren't looking to build initiative projects underway on thecoast, benefiting from the streamlining development, private business leaders,labor unions (trades particularly), around the state. showing state leadership in developingvalue-added products.
be supported in developing their economies.change is needed at the agency level, especially with DLCD, DEQ and 2. A fundamental climate a bunch more Portlands out here. We'relooking for strong communities where we are discussing, as well as industrialsymbiosis. This allows us to turn universities and others. This is an all-hands-on-deck sort of endeavor.
others. Instead of moving the goalpost and finding reasons and ways to killprojects, they should be working hard to find ways to get to YES in we can chart our own course. statewide waste in seafood, cattleproduction and other industries into
responsible ways consistent with the values of our state and thecommunities where projects are located. That second part is key, because wealth with new value-added productsmade with that material.
there are a lot of projects in rural communities that get killed based onurban values and input rather than listening to the communities.
Streamlining is wonderful, but there needs to be a different thoughtprocess, too.
Jennifer DiBello 97007 Both The Arc Oregon Non-profit NA None ofthese. 1 - 20 people Workforce Oregon's budget. Stop cutting educational budgetsespecially for the developmental All schools having a greater graduationrate. Better education for all students. NA I am not sure yet. Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Chris Sumpter 97420 Both Outer Limits Construction Private Forestry and NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Reduce the governmental influence on the private sector. Stop handing disabled and learning disabled.Eliminate our Liberal leadership! Success would look like less taxes, Our people have to vote our current Let's start with business progressive Look to Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Wood Products money out to welfare/non-working individuals. less oversight, streamlined approvalsprocesses. leadership out/our current leadershipneeds to realize they work the the leadership and work from there! Texas as models.
Chuck Sheketoff 97381 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The biggest barriers are we no longer have a K-life education system that Put a price on all the tax giveaways and Less homelessness, lower poverty working/tax payers of this state.Legislature primarily, and business pre-K through community college and Investments in education. Educational Yes Tools for growth NA The biggest friction point is that the tax End the tax giveaways and put the Businesses would be thriving. Legislature and Governor NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
was a factor for Intel coming to Oregon, and our education system is thekey to prosperity - from attracting workers to maintaining workers to fueling focus instead on addressing the non-tax issues where there is probably rate, more affordable housing costsrelative to other states, a top-ranked lobby returning to the time when taxeswasn't their focus (see higher ed - all underfunded andneeding improvement. attainment is key to prosperity - seehttps://drive.google.com/file/d/1Z- giveaways to business have contributedto underfunding our workforce and saved dollars into investments inworkforce and education (including
innovation, education is key. For instance, businesses of all sizes needemployees who don't have worries about quality child care and affordability some consensus - investing more inhigher ed, investing more in affordable public higher education system,workforce training that all but the https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YURrhl1nak2uM0Eb5_YoVDrvtOPJ5fMU/view?us HlXqjzdS8t8y1h_sMff2LViY0CZLNF/view?usp=sharing education systems. The businesscommunity has been unable and preschool/childcare)
of child care. We need workforce training so more people can earn betterwages. We need investments in housing so housing becomes affordable; housing, investing more in earlychildhood education, investing more in college bound high school graduatescan participate in, etc. The incomes of p=sharing) unwilling to admit to the failures of theirlow tax approach. Take single sales
today businesses don't want to move to an area where their employeescan't afford to live. And the biggest friction point is the business high school CTC programs, communitycollege workforce programs, and higher low and middle income families risingfaster than the income and wealth of the factor apportionment. It was hailed asthe key to building up the manufacturing
community's never ending push to lower taxes and get tax subsidies -taking the low road to economic development. ed programs. top 1% sector in Oregon. All it did was rewardsignificantly some very large profitable
corporations and failed to produce anysignificant results.
Justin Douglas 97030 Organization/Business City of Gresham Public NA Localgovernment 500-1000 people Business climate The blurb above states the problem at hand - the state does NOT provide apredictable and competitive environment for employers through practical Triple the amount of the StrategicReserve Fund, but with more State agencies that operate in acoordinated manner that prioritizes Above all, the governor. This kind ofleadership needs to come from the top. Enterprise Zone See above re:Strategic Reserve Fund Fund On the I'd recommend surveying site selectorswho have a national reach and are Yes Workforce NA Lack of coordination among workforcedevelopment agencies (e.g., Oregon The Chief Prosperity Officer/Governorshould appoint a Workforce Focus on both incumbent workers aswell as hiring new employees. See recommendation on the WorkforceCzar Future Ready Oregon. Prosperity10,000. See other comment about site selectorsurvey Yes Tools for growth Having 'Tools for Growth' and 'BusinessClimate' as two of the three main areas See responses to 'Business Climate' See responses to 'Business Climate' See responses to 'Business Climate' See responses to 'Business Climate' NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As noted, two of the three focus areasseem redundant. 'Business Climate' is economic-development-strategic-plan%20(3).pdf
policies related to regulation, permitting, and taxation.untangle here and the biggest challenge isn't called out directly in the blurb. There's a lot to predictable criteria and lessdiscretionary decision-making. managed growth and prosperity. A governor showing up at a siteselector/recruitment goes a lot further Job Training (OJT) and other workforcedevelopment initiatives familiar with state-by-statecomparisons. Employment Department, WorkSourceOregon, Higher Education Coordinating Development Czar. From stateagencies, to higher education, to private Population increase. Businesses nolonger leaving Oregon. Job growth. is confusing. Getting the 'Tools forGrowth' right will help create a better an end that results from a healthyworkforce development ecosystem,
The state and governor simply do not have the financial tools to supportbusiness recruitment, retention and expansion. Clarity, consistency, and than a department head. The governorcan also assert that the value of Commission). business, all are involved in workforcedevelopment but with slightly different Prosperity 'Business Climate.' Case in point - twofocus areas touch on permitting. clarity on permitting, financial tools withimpact, and staff who value modest
certainty around state regulations would also go a long way (and actuallydon't cost money!). managed growth and prosperity is anon-negotiable across departments. motivations and levers. Having a titularhead to this work at the state level could growth and prosperity.
help align actors at a time of criticalneed.
James Jones 97202 Both Bullseye Glass Co. Private Metals andMachinery NA 101-500 people Business climate Oregon's new Climate Protection Program. It is the most expensive in theworld. Exclude all companies with GreenHouse Gas emissions under 5,000 The above changes need to be made in2026, as funds are already being Governor Kotek has the ability tochange this, as it was an executive SAIF - workers compensation. Therates are very reasonable. OSHA Lower taxes for businesses and citizen.Oregon needs a sales tax. Oregon No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It is my understanding that the ClimateProtection Program will fine NA
MTCO2e.companies using BAT (Best Available Allow exclusions for collected. Companies can not wait 2-3years, to see if Oregon policy makers order from Former Governor Brown. consultation program. Agencies likeDEQ should have the same sort of agencies need to be more effective andif needed work with lower budgets. Stop businesses and consumers $500million to $1 billion annually. The
Technology) in their industry. Collectedfunds should go toward reducing GHG get this right. program. treating business like they arecriminals. All businesses are not bad. Governor cannot be serious aboutprosperity if she allows this program to
emissions exclusively. Funneling fundsto non-profits to be used for Our employees are just as important tous and the state employees are to the continue.please don't forget about the small and While I admire Nike and Intel
environmental justice is not a good useof those funds. politicians and policy makers.Agencies need to be trained and medium size businesses. The desire toattract new businesses to Oregon is
rewarded for using common sense.Many regulations when one is forced to fine, but don't do it on the backs ofexisting business. We need to be
follow to the letter of the law do notmake any sense and are counter valued. Stop creating policies that makeus want to move to another state.
productive to agencies goals.
Dana Siebert 97405 Both Onward Eugene Non-profit NA economicdevelopment 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Change the law that requires prevailing wage on development projects.BOLI set this ruling in place in 2007 and it has not been adjusted since. Either drop the requirement all together.Make exemptions for housing and We have a number of housing projectsstopped in Eugene because of this I don't know if the governor and BOLIcan make the change. I know unions NA NA Yes Tools for growth NA We need a focus on making industrialland shovel-ready. Three major problems are wetlandmitigation, electric power availability For the Southern Willamette ValleyInnovation Corridor, we have 2 legislature I assume. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We are completely uncompetitive onstate incentives for recruiting NA
strategic community projects. Changewhat triggers prevailing wage (better issue. Specifically the riverfrontdevelopment can not finish the planned are a major political barrier. through BPA, and investment funds ininfrastructure. industrial areas that total over 1,400acres. We are turning companies away businesses to the area. Any time I haveasked for help from the state, there has
define what triggers). and/or raise thethe threshold from $750k to a much housing developmet because of thisissue. because we do not have shovel-readysite. been nothing meaningful in incentiveprograms.
larger amount.
Ron Loewen 97374 Both Best Heating Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Land use, and building code, and a state that taxes us at the highest ratesand is not provide any redundancy in power production roadways that are Remove vote by mail, prosecute. TheDemocrats that received stolen money The homeless would not be on thestreets the criminals will be in jail. The We need an initiative petition to removeunions representing public servants. Organ does not have any programs thatare working correctly at this time. Fire NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services not properly maintained and criminals, not held accountable for the crimesthey commit. for their campaign . Stop spendingmoney on illegal aliens. Democrats will be out of power, andthere will be an economic revival 1/3 of the public employees.
Chris West 97224 Both Pac/West Resources Private Business and NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Investment dollars, other states are more inviting... Culture change, start saying yes, throughout the state.New investment dollars that will bring Legislature None. Look at Texas, Florida and even just No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ProfessionalServices instead of maybe or no... jobs. Clark County in Washington.
Beth Klingner 97124 Both Dion Vineyard - a winegrape vineyard and small Private Food andBeverage Agriculture 1 - 20 people Business climate Too many regulations and rules - we are sure we are out of compliance_somewhere_ but we try to meet every rule we know about, and I am sure Please provide a simple website withall the compliance, rules, permits, and Relatively easy and understandable tostart up a business in Oregon with full Legislature, local goverments (city,county, and Metro), land use Oregon's public beaches and it's statepark program are excellent. I'd like to see state bureau's haveaccountability for their budgets and to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
production winery we are missing one somewhere. It's impossible to keep track. regulations for a business to operate inOregon. (I know, this is a herculean compliance and permits. Preferablyunder 6 months and with a reasonable departments, OLCC (or other regulatingbody), BOLI, State Dept of Revenue, etc. be able to cut responsibly and be ableto explain it to legislators and the public.
task, and it should NOT be!) monetary load applied as well. businesses supported and recognizedI'd like to see SMALL and large
by the state for their contributions to oureconomy and employment.
Heather Fay Ficht 97701 Both East Cascades Works, thelocal workforce Non-profit NA Non-profitworkforce 1 - 20 people Workforce Continued year over year reductions in funding from the Federal govt andlack of investment from the state, despite the investments generating new Reallocate dispersed state workforcefunds that are unaligned and duplicative Stable funding for workforce serviceswould ensure more resources support Legislature Continuous Improvement Committee ofthe Workforce Talent Development There are many states who alignworkforce funds across siloed state No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I found Angela Wilhelm from OBI'spresentation on legislative changes OWPWorkforceRecommendations.pdf
development board serving10 counties east of the revenue through personal income taxes. to support a cohesive and strategicregional approach that leverages skill development in relevant localemployment opportunities to better Board is mandated to conduct a thirdparty evaluation with recommendations agencies to ensure a more robust,accountable and effective talent needed to support a more businessfriendly environment to be very
cascades mountain range. Federal investments and localinfrastructure. Local Workforce Boards match career opportunities. It wouldallow us to upskill employed workers to for improvement of the public workforcesystem. It would be helpful if the development system (Texas, Michigan,etc). This would require Gov oversight informative!
are led by local businesses and shouldbe empowered to address local needs, help "recession-proof" people andincrease business competitiveness. Governor and Legislature acted onthose recommendations. We are about as state agency leadership is co-equaland WIOA is the main funding for the
not a generic mandate from Salem orstate agencies that are not in tune to Both industry and workers wouldbenefit. The more people working at to enter into the 3rd eval and many ofthe previous recommendations are still public workforce system in Oregon,which is spread across 5 state
needs and local resources. higher wages results in more taxrevenue to support state General Funds. not enacted. agencies - we have no Dept of Labor inOregon.
Lee Schrepel 97148 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The Governor & super-majority party, thus the State of Oregon, has a biasagainst business & employers in the state. The State is over-regulated & Simplify & reduce regulation & taxation.Reduce risk & vulnerability of being an A more attractive atmosphere could bedeveloping for small business. The legislature & Governor need amajor attitude adjustment. There needs The Ore. Dept. of Agriculture can behelpful when not focused upon NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
over-taxed. This is not just a perception; it is a reality. This has persistedthrough the multiple governors as Oregon became a state of 'big employer & business owner. Reducefocus upon technology & support to be a huge shift of the 'biggovernment' burden off the shoulders of regulation enforcement. TheEmployment Department can be helpful
government' & with an attitude of enforcement. natural resource-based industries suchas ag, forestry & fisheries. Stop the race small businesses & ag in general. with job placement, but has becomepathetic when it comes to
to pave over the Willamette Valleybecause "they're not making more good administration of benefits.
farmland"! Stop the tax incentives toattract big technology. Nurture &
appreciate small businesses. Supportthe OSU Extension Service & education
in the "trades" & management of smallbusiness.
Andrea O'Neil 97067 Organization/Business Klobas O'Neil Roofing Co.Inc Private NA construction 1 - 20 people Business climate taxes, fees, overhead, employees (people can't afford to live here so theyare moving. We are considering this for our family) cost for people that live here and runbusinesses here has to change or new leadership that understands math local (Oregon) government from the topdown NONE- they don't help small business I work to much to look at what otherstates are doing but I am going to take Yes Workforce NA the workforce has declined to a point itis untenable. The majority of my We need people to understandeconomics. MATH! Nothing is free and New leadership that tells the truth. EVERYONE! none! Oregon is an road map on howto fail. Look at states that are succeeding.Arizona, Florida, Texas, Idaho. South Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
nothing that we do makes a difference. the time. workforce has either moved because ofcost of living, education and safety for we end up paying for it in other ways.Stop destroying the middle class. Carolina. What they doing to attract somany people.
their family of they are strung out ondrugs living in tents.
Al Stephens 97333 Organization/Business HVAC Contractor Private Business andProfessional Heating &Air 1 - 20 people Business climate Payroll and payroll taxes Wages have gone up, taxes have goneup, our prices have gone up. It's all Cost of living would be down so thatpeople could afford rent and utilities That's for those in charge to sort out NA Less taxes on goods! We tax gas todeath, tobacco to death, we are paying Yes Workforce NA College-based education More trade schools andscholarships/grants for attending Equal focus on college-bound studentsand trade-bound students with a focus Stop pushing college on every studentin school as if you're a failure if you're NA NA Yes Tools for growth Cost of living and a plan to addressmental health Bring down the cost of land and rents,implement programs that Rent affordable for everyone, mentalhealth programs that help instead of Again, this is up to those elected intopositions to come up with solutions, NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon used to be beautiful andthriving. Government has taken over NA
Services Conditioning relative and raising minimum wagedidn't help anyone out of poverty and a life outside of work and home! Mycustomers can barely afford their to camp, fish, hunt, visit parks .... it's tooexpensive to have any sort of quality of tradeschool on real-life education that includesbudgeting, running a household, not college-bound. Divert funds into theclassroom to support teachers instead EFFECTIVELY address mental healthfor those who are homeless or need harm those that need it, real help forthose who are houseless instead of that is what we put you in power to dofor us. more and more and our quality of livehas gone down as a direct result.
electric bill, let alone a new heatingsystem. life in this state. With a lower quality oflife, all money goes to paying bills and financing and money smarts of top-heavy administration costs. Toomuch money is being dumped into drug/alcohol treament creating space for them to just BEhomeless. Oregonians need more freedoms,affordable living, and opportunities to
taxes with nothing left to invest in highticket items like a new heating system education that has NOTHING to do withwhat is happening in the classroom. earn wages that will not just make endsmeet, but afford them to be successful
and prosperous.
Dale Moon 97478 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The current funding model for community colleges presents a significantbarrier to effectively training workers in high-demand fields. In order to In order to enhance educational fundingand support workforce development, it Oregon aims to develop a workforce ofexceptional quality that serves as an The state legislature is instrumental inthe allocation of financial resources 1. **WIOA Implementation**: Oregon'simplementation of the Workforce 1. Sector Partnerships with SharedFunding - States like Colorado and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
successfully equip students with the skills necessary for careers in areassuch as welding, machine tool technology, and mechatronics, community is essential to reform the existingfunding formula. This can involve attractive asset for businessesconsidering establishment or designated for educational initiatives. Itbears the responsibility of approving Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA)integrates statewide and local Kentucky have developed sectorpartnership models that involve
colleges require adequate financial resources. These institutions must beable to offer competitive salaries to attract and retain qualified faculty in reallocating financial resources awayfrom detrimental cuts in education. expansion within the state. Throughstrategic investments in education and and disbursing funds earmarked fortechnical training programs, which in workforce development throughWorkSource Oregon, connecting job collaboration among educationalinstitutions, employers, workforce
these specialized fields, where compensation levels are often significantlyhigher than what community colleges can provide. Enhanced funding Additionally, consideration should begiven to transferring a portion of training programs, the goal is toenhance the skills and competencies of turn facilitates job creation andworkforce development. Similarly, local seekers to training and career servicesaligned with employer needs. 2. boards, and community organizationsto create training for high-demand
mechanisms are essential to ensure that community colleges can fulfilltheir critical role in workforce development. corporate tax revenues to communitycolleges, thereby enabling these the workforce, thereby fostering anenvironment conducive to economic governments and employers areimperative stakeholders in this **Future Ready Oregon**: Establishedin 2022 with an investment of industries such as healthcare and IT.Key features include: - Alignment of
institutions to effectively train anddevelop a skilled workforce. growth and innovation. process; they must advocate for thesereforms and actively participate in the approximately $200 million, FutureReady Oregon focuses on equitable curricula with employer needs - Poolingof funding from various sectors - Focus
development and implementation oftraining programs. Their collaboration workforce training funding, includingWorkforce Ready Grants and targeted on equitable access and supportservices. This model effectively
is essential for ensuring thateducational offerings align with labor programs in high-demand sectors,prioritizing underserved populations. facilitates pathways to quality jobs.Integrated Career Pathways with 2.
market needs, ultimately fostering amore skilled workforce that can meet *Significance*:funding to local workforce boards. - Allocates direct - Education - Washington State’s I-BESTprogram integrates adult basic
the demands of a dynamic economy. Emphasizes support for historicallymarginalized groups. - Enhances education with college-level careercourses, enabling learners to develop
training in in-demand industries.**Oregon Youth Works**: This initiative 3. literacy skills while earning credentials,thus reducing barriers to employment.
fosters workforce development for youthand young adults through state-funded Expansion- Registered Apprenticeship3. Earn and Learn Apprenticeship
programs that provide paid workexperiences and essential programs in Wisconsin and Californiahave expanded into fields like
employability skills, preparing them forfuture careers. 4. **Training healthcare and IT, featuring: - Pre-apprenticeship programs for diverse
Unemployment Insurance (TUI)**: TUIallows dislocated workers to receive learners - Stackable credentials leadingto degrees - Employer incentives for
unemployment benefits while engagingin full-time training, facilitating career participation. These programs allowlearners to earn while they train,
Randal Flaming 97361 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The biggest hurdles for business is governmental regulation/restrictions Lower the tax rate on businesses and Success would look like more new The legislature, the governor, and all transitions and reskilling.Training Provider List (ETPL)**: TheThis is the fundamental problem. We, 5. **Eligible improving retention.Subsidies and Flexible Funding -Just look at all the red states that are 4. Tuition Yes Workforce NA Our education system is broken. We no Stop teaching woke nonsense and Student's test scores would improve. The legislature, the local school Very little. I would like to see more You don't have to look to other states, Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and excessive taxes. We need to simply things and make it easier andmore profitable for business in this state. repeal all sorts of detrimentalregulations. businesses starting in the statebecause the owners could see a future lower level governments. as individuals, need to understand thatEVERYTHING needs to be on the attracting businesses and startemulating them. longer test students to see if they arelearning. How can you know if your return to teaching the basics. We donot need teachers teaching students to They would be able to thinkindependently and form rational, logical boards, the teachers and the teacher'sunions. emphasis on vocational training andless emphasis/spending on college although there are ample goodexamples there. Look to the huge
of potential profitability. Lower tax rateson businesses would also be a sign chopping block. There should be nosacred cows that cannot be cut. But, in "product" is working as intended if youdo not measure it? Oregon's education question their gender. We do not needteachers who cannot teach. We need to independent thoughts. The would beable to graduate and hold down jobs education. vocational training is abargain compared to college education. numbers of students in Oregon who arebeing home schooled and learning far
that we are headed in the right direction.Lower taxes would necessitate lower reality, there is so much waste in thisstate that massive cuts could be done system consistently ranks in the bottom5 in the nation, yet our spending per return to testing students so we knowwhich teachers are doing a good job that require an education. more than the students in publiceducation in Oregon.
state government spending, so wewould need to see budget cuts. without making huge sacrifices. student ranks near the top. That is aproblem. and which ones need to be taught howto teach. That would also allow us to
Another sign of success would be tosee fewer businesses leaving the state teach students in ways that are effectiveand result in actual learning, rather than
and moving to more business friendlystates. indoctrination.
Lora Monroe 97338 Both Lora Michele EntertainmentLLC Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth The cost of hiring employees is a big deterrent to hiring help. The cost ofeverything makes growth very challenging. Even just the cost of getting Less government regulation andtaxation. The more rules and oversight The cost of living and doing businessgoing down so everyone's dollar goes I think the answer really is lessgovernment. While Oregon does have a I go back and forth on the OregonHealth Plan, while I am grateful to have Anything that puts the choice back in thepeople's laps. Open enrollment for No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please stop thinking left or right. Theextremes do not help anyone. Please NA
Services repairs on the building let alone making upgrades. What I need to chargepeople for services and still make a profit is moving towards unsustainable administered the more cost and burdenthere is on business owners. I'd say further and it allows us to grow. lot of great programs, I don't feel like itis the place of government to provide all it, I also think the way insurance is setup in general is what has caused schools, less financial burden onbusinesses (insurance and permits are don't buy into the sensationalizedheadlines that divide us all. Take a
for the economy. lower or get rid of minimum wage, but Iknow that is incredibly unlikely. The way that it does. In my experience, wheneverthe government has stopped offering a healthcare to get so expensive in thefirst place. The way things are now, if expensive), more information andtransparency made available to the softer quieter approach and really askwhat is best for our state. Authoritarian
things are now forces smallbusinesses to stay small and only the program, the private sector can usuallycome in and offer it in a better way we didn't have insurance, almost noone would be able to afford healthcare public, and overall simplification ofgovernment. governments believe that the peopleare not capable of making good
big corporate businesses can afford tostay in business, if they even choose to anyways. and it would force prices to go down. I'malready seeing this start to happen as decisions and that decisions must bemade for them. Even the best and most
do business in Oregon at all. The costof food has made restaurants have to more and more places have startedoffering deals to NOT have to go moral person is just not capable ofmaking the right decision for everyone
significantly raise their prices which isalso unsustainable. through insurance. because they lack the information to doso. Put decisions back with the people
and provide them with what they need inorder to make informed decisions.
Daniel Cicerchi 97062 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Minimal hands-on experience mixed with theoretical explorations in publiceducation systems Adjust K-12 (and maybeuniversity/colleges) curriculum to Even if implemented immediately,success would be difficult to measure, Everyone in the state has to act as we'llneed curriculums to be adjusted to Oregon has a decent education systemfor providing knowledge such that one Montessori models are somewhatrelated to the notes above. This could No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It feels like Oregon's education systemis a 'you get what you give' model, which NA
include real-world experiences toeducate and train for beyond schooling. but this should create a more efficientworkforce where each person can wear incorporate less theory and moreapplied, employers may have to donate can explore many paths. I do wantlearning about theory to continue. look like more after school clubs orpartnering with local employers. works well for some, but not all. Addingin other learning methods (hands-on)
Some real-world examples includecooking, carpentry, plumbing, multiple hats if needed. time as professionals in the hands-onindustry to help schools, educators may should help bring a few more into thatmix while diversifying everyone's
accounting, sewing, logistics, etc. gain time for theory tasks if someoneelse is able to step in occasionally for abilities.
educating hands-on experiences.
Derek R Gerber 97132 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Raising taxes on everything. Stop tax hikes. New leadership that listens to it'sconstituents. Legislature. Unemployment insurance but needs aphone number that gets answered. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Deborah Smith 97128 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The quality and cost of education is failing our kid's and future employees.Stop the DEI, sexualization, and indoctrination. Remove all illegal Follow federal laws and regulations,honor American citizens constitutional No more Democrat politicians in anyplace of serious leadership anywhere The People have to act! We have to getleaders who are educated and serve State programs use our tax dollars, no.Only policies which encourage the Florida, no Property taxes, no tax ontips, no tax on overtime, no INCOME tax, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As soon as I am able, I am leaving thisstate for a better way of life. Oregon will NA
immigrants from schools. Teach reading, writing, including cursive, history,civics, english, and other job forward classes like schools used to due, like rights and stop constantly trying to takethem away! Reduce taxes, regulations, in the state. No illegal immigrants in theOregon workforce! Deregulation, safety, the citizens instead of their owninterests. We have to have fair elections freedom to prosper or fail without ourtax dollars. I cannot think of any helpful no redistribution/entitlements of payrolltax withholdings, Freedom from not get to take my already taxed moneywhen I die. The Governor is a failure!
woodshop, construction, art, pottery, dance, jewelry making, future farmers,sports. reduce government workforcemassively, shift jobs to private lower prices, better non-gov jobs withhigher pay. No government handouts or with people with honesty and integrity toserve. Employers need to be surveyed policies in Oregon anymore which donot require my tax dollars. government intrusion in every aspect oflife. the sooner she/he is gone, the betterOregon will be.
businesses. Government interferencein the ability of business to grow has handups to anyone, especially illegals. annually on the state of the economyand business environment. Local
caused quality workers to leave thestate. This should change. government get out of the way and allowthe private sector to flourish...without
our taxes.
Philip Higgins 97132 Both Pacific Crest Real EstateAdvisors Private Business andProfessional CommercialReal Estate 1 - 20 people Business climate Preponderance of duplicative regulations, and quite frankly the poorattitudes of agency personnel Comprehensive Regulatory Audit andconcentrate the intended goal / See solution above. I'd like to see the State lead by theGovernor do this and then encourage 1. Regional Solutions is amazing. ThatRS exists at all is a symptom the the Returning property rights thru givingowner "by right" to build. SB 1537 was No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA My hot take from hours ofconversations: 1.Taxes – they are NA
Services Brokerage &Developmen outcome into one simplified processwith one Agency in charge. local government (with grants) to do thesame problem of too many regulations andtoo many regulators - but RE staff is a a fantastic step in the right direction high. But if the taxpayers felt like theywere receiving value, it would be ok.
t blessing.does fantastic work but needs more 2. Business Oregon in spirit Right now no one feels like the moneyis being spent with the same discipline
tools. that businesses need to exercise tostay in business. 2.Everything is
needlessly hard. The spirit of theregulations – to protect a resource or
prevent harm – not only do they nolonger do either of those things, but they
are also one of the things causingharm. Oregon needs a Comprehensive
Regulatory Audit and to concentrate theintended goal / outcome into one
simplified process with one Agency incharge. 3.This hearts and minds is a
big issue. The State / Local / Agencies –every interaction is “business is a bad
actor and we must be hyper vigilant tostop them. And if they are successful,
we as regulators did not provide therigorous oversight we should have”.
People want to buy things made orgown in Oregon. We shouldn’t punish
or vilify the propel that make and supplythose goods and services. Success is
not bad and it doesn’t come atsomeone else’s expense.
Jerry Moen 97128 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The cost of doing business with taxes, fees, and misappropriation of somecosts. Cut tax & fee rates and reverse thedecision to steal lodging taxes for use If lodging taxes were used as originallypromised tourism would rebound in our Legislature Not sure any exist. I simply want a state government thatfinds ways to let me keep more of my No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
in the general budget. area to levels of 5-10 years ago. If taxeswere cut our overhead would be at a money instead of finding ways to takemore of my money.
level that would allow improvements inour product & services.
