The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians
Executive Summary
The Prosperity Council is at a crossroads: it must choose between taking the high or low road to
improved prosperity. We choose the high road - A Roadmap for Oregon Prosperity that has first
and foremost the goal of improving per capita income and improving the lives of low- and
moderate-income Oregonians.
Focusing on merely growing the economy, reducing taxes on the highest income earners or
businesses, or relying on flawed business climate rankings, which are often biased and
unreliable indicators of a state’s economic prosperity, miss the mark. It is the adequacy of our
tax system, not Oregon’s tax ranking, that should matter most to policymakers, business
leaders, and other Oregonians.
A highly educated and trained workforce is the single most powerful economic lever for
increasing incomes. This starts with a sustainable education funding infrastructure. From
childcare to early learning and preschool programs, from K-12 to apprenticeships and vocational
training and community colleges, to institutions of higher education, the high road approach to
economic development relies on shoring up multiple pathways to financial stability.
Notably, and to some frighteningly, the Governor’s Prosperity Roadmap was silent about
artificial intelligence (AI). Oregon needs guardrails and worker-centered policies on artificial
intelligence so that AI supports increased productivity while supporting job security and job
upskilling, not marginalizing and replacing workers.
Oregon’s net positive migration of firms shows that business relocation has little to do with
alleged poor business climate. The “doom loop” narrative, widely embraced by the business
community, fails to stand up to the economic data.
Tax expenditures – giveaways by state and local governments that must be made up by other
taxpayers or result in diminished funds for public structures such as infrastructure, education
and health care – generally do not drive business decisions. Despite their aggregate high cost
to taxpayers, the State has failed to seriously evaluate its tax expenditures for business
recruitment to justify their costs to taxpayers and their impact on other state priorities.
Just like any smart CEO, Oregon should pursue a strategy of its own and ignore the low road of
doing everything other states do, just more cheaply. Oregon should build on Oregon's strengths,
especially its unparalleled quality of life, and appeal to the smartest, hardest working,
best-educated workers and the most innovative firms to help us build a high-skill, high-wage,
high quality of life economy in the knowledge-driven world of the 21st century.
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 1 of 17
