May 15, 2026
Governor’s Prosperity Council
State of Oregon
Curtis Robinhold and Renee James, Co-chairs
Re: Accelerating prosperity through Oregon's natural and working lands and local/state capacity to
effectively plan for the future
Dear Co-Chairs and Members of the Governor’s Prosperity Council,
On behalf of the Pew Charitable Trusts (Pew), thank you for the Prosperity Council’s (Council) work to
1
advance actionable recommendations under the Governor’s Prosperity Roadmap and for the opportunity
to provide feedback as the Council moves forward.
Pew’s U.S. Conservation project advances commonsense solutions that address the impacts of a changing
environment on nature and communities, in collaboration with policy makers, Tribes, and stakeholders. This
project works on several related issues: protection of lands and waters, climate-ready management of
species and habitats, restoring terrestrial and aquatic connectivity, a focus on greenhouse gas (GHG) sinks
2
like coastal wetlands and peatlands, and preparing communities for climate impacts. Our U.S. Conservation
program’s interest in the Council’s work relate to Oregon's natural and working lands, Oregon's Statewide
Land Use Planning Goals, and their relationship to recent legislative and administrative actions that have
bearing on the Roadmap and the Council's strategic goals. Accordingly, we encourage the Council to include
the following in its final recommendations to the Governor by June 30, 2026:
1: Call for an independent analysis of Oregon state and local permit operations to evaluate the net benefits
of permitting systems for Oregonians, including the extent to which current processes support public trust,
environmental stewardship, economic development, and timely decision-making. The analysis should also
identify opportunities to reduce unnecessary delays and improve coordination, which could supplement
3
implementation of HB 4084 (2026).
2: Encourage the state of Oregon to reinvest in state and local planning capacity, including in specialized
programs like Oregon’s Coastal Management Program (OCMP). This initiative can help build Oregon back
from the decades of divestment in local planning that has created barriers to predictable permitting
outcomes in cities and counties.
3: Align the Council’s recommendations with the Governor’s recent climate-focused executive orders,
including Executive Order 25-26 directing state agencies “to take urgent action to promote the resilience of
4
our communities and natural and working lands and waters.” This alignment may reveal multi-benefit
1
State of Oregon, Governor Tina Kotek, Oregon's Prosperity Roadmap, December 2025,
https://www.oregon.gov/gov/Documents/Oregon's_Prosperity_Roadmap_December_2025.pdf
2
The Pew Charitable Trusts, U.S. Conservation Project, accessed 5/11/26, https://www.pew.org/en/projects/us-
conservation
3
Oregon State Legislature, House Bill 4084: Relating to economic development, 2026 Regular Session,
https://olis.oregonlegislature.gov/liz/2026R1/Downloads/MeasureDocument/HB4084/Enrolled
4
State of Oregon, Governor Tina Kotek, Executive Order No. 25-26, October 2025,
https://www.oregon.gov/gov/eo/eo-25-26.pdf
