 Arizona has economic development offices around the world (7)
 States get more of what they invest in
 Oregon ranks last in economic development dollars
 Oregon ranks high in homelessness funding
o Ironically – we’re creating an ecosystem of homelessness initiatives, but we’re
driving out the taxpayers that we’d need to make programs like this sustainable
over time.
The Fixes aren’t complicated and don’t need to be unique to Oregon
Oregon needs to:
 Mandate a 10 year budget analysis of state revenue and expenditures, identifying costs
that are escalating beyond what the state’s GDP can support.
 Move from a land use system designed to restrict investment to one that mandates
investment. We should be looking out 3-5 biennia, working on what our expected
budget will be, then backing into the investments we will need to generate the revenue
required to fund the state’s expenditures. A growth mindset to fund expanding services.
 Create and fund a Department of Commerce to oversee the mandates to grow, review
barriers to investment, and propose regulatory fixes to moderate overly restrictive
policies.
 Properly zoned land, inside a UGB, should no longer be subject to additional state-level
wetlands restrictions. The land has already gone through a public information process,
elected leaders have weighed the trade-offs, and the state has an opportunity to weigh-
in during the UGB expansion process. Once the land is part of the city’s growth plan,
the state cannot maintain additional land use restrictions.
 Expand funding for shovel-ready industrial and commercial land.
 Review rules and regulations to moderate state agencies.
 Reform prevailing wage requirements that discourage public-private investment.
 Regain our focus on being a world leader in low-cost energy.
 Establish a sunset for administrative rules and programs, requiring a thorough review of
the cost and benefits before renewal.
 Undergo a comprehensive tax reform process. We cannot continue to push away
capital by maintaining the highest income and estate taxes.
 Preempt local jurisdictions from raising taxes, already preempted at the state level, by
calling them licenses or fees.
541-683-5073
PO Box 407, Eugene OR 97440
