MEMORANDUM
To: Curtis Robinhold, Renee James
Co-Chairs, Governor’s Prosperity Council
From: Oregon Public University Presidents
Date: May 13th, 2026
Subject: Prosperity Council Higher Education Roundtable Follow-Up
Dear Co-Chairs Robinhold and James and Members of the Governor’s Prosperity Council,
Thank you for your time and for your interest in the role that Oregon’s public universities play in
creating a prosperous future for our state. We greatly appreciate your work towards
collaboratively building that future.
As we discussed, we firmly believe that public universities are foundational to Oregon’s current
and future economy. If we are serious about improving Oregon’s economic outlook, accessible,
affordable, high-quality, industry-aligned higher education must be included every step of the
way.
Oregon’s public universities play a major economic role, generating over $10 billion in annual
impact (or nearly $20 billion when including OHSU’s academic and hospital operations) and
producing more than 20,000 graduates each year who benefit from higher earnings, lower
unemployment, and stronger career prospects. Some important figures to note include:
- Approximately 85% of personal income tax revenue is paid by those with bachelor’s
degrees or higher.
- Industry surveys consistently rank access to a skilled and educated workforce as
the top factor in site selection for large, high-wage employers.
However, Oregon’s public four-year universities face growing financial pressure, as costs,
especially benefits, are rising faster than revenues despite efficient operations.
At the same time, Oregon significantly underfunds its public universities, ranking 46th nationally
in per-student appropriations. This gap has shifted more of the financial burden onto students,
leading to higher tuition, with students now covering about two-thirds of costs compared to the
state’s one-third.
Universities want to be part of the solution. We should be a key part of Oregon's prosperity and
business development plans. Across the nation, we see that states with robust business
climates include their public universities as active partners in these efforts. Workforce and
