Even with our anemic investment in trails and other recreation infrastructure, the 2022
Economic Analysis Of Outdoor Recreation In Oregon report showed that outdoor recreation
in Oregon supported $15.7 billion in expenditures, $20.6 billion in total economic output,
192,000 full- and part-time jobs, and $12.4 billion in Oregon GDP in 2022. Every dollar
spent on outdoor recreation in Oregon generated an additional $0.31 in secondary
economic activity, with benefits flowing to restaurants, hotels, grocery stores, outfitters,
retailers, and rural main streets.
SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS FOR LONG-TERM PROSPERITY AND A THRIVING
OREGON OUTDOOR ECONOMY
Reinstate Oregon’s Office of Outdoor Recreation
Oregon’s Office of Outdoor Recreation, originally enabled through legislation in 2017, and
further codified in 2021’s HB 2171, has remained empty and unstaffed since April 2023.
This office is critical for cross-agency and cross-sector coordination and collaboration to
streamline efforts to forward Oregon’s outdoor recreation economy such as those laid out in
the Governor’s Task Force on Outdoor Recreation’s 2020 Framework for Action. We are
especially in need of an all-lands hub for outdoor recreation planning and coordination in
light of the disinvestment in and reorganization of federal land management agencies,
affecting the management of more than 50% of the land mass of our state.
Meaningfully invest in a world-class trail network for Oregon
Trails are how we access Oregon’s iconic landscapes. Oregon’s trails funding programs are
vastly oversubscribed from the Recreational Trails Program administered by OPRD to the
Oregon Community Paths program administered by ODOT. Our public agencies are
frequently forced to reduce project scopes, building our trails network by just a mile (or less)
at a time rather than making the bold investments that can transform local economies.
As the legislature takes up transportation funding again in 2027, there is an opportunity to
dedicate new funding in a transportation package for a transformative investment in
developing and maintaining our statewide multi-use path network: creating the kind of
communities where businesses want to locate, people want to live, people of all ages can
safely get around, and visitors choose as destinations for multi-day trips.
Oregon leaders can also call for more direct investment in Oregon’s Signature Trails such
as the $1.3 M Congressionally Directed Spending allocation Senators Merkley and Wyden
secured for Signature Trails in the Columbia Gorge, Umatilla NF, and Willamette NF in
2024.
www.oregontrailscoalition.org | 503-290-4569 | steph.noll@oregontrailscoalition.org
