As a part of this strategy, consistent, long-term funding to support community college
apprenticeship and training programs, especially in rural areas, can make the training more
accessible and sustainable. Training and education in energy efficiency equipment and solar
technologies could be embedded within these programs to prepare the workforce for evolving
needs in the energy efficiency industry. Consistent funding could help develop and scale training
infrastructure in rural communities, including the permanent placement of training equipment
and materials. The state could also support business incubation programming to help new small
businesses provide energy efficiency and renewable energy services and grow to meet project
demand.
What would success look like in 2–3 years?
In two to three years, success would look like establishment and active implementation of a
state-led clean energy workforce development strategy, as outlined above. Training programs
incorporating education in energy efficiency and solar would be well-funded and established
across the state, including in rural communities, enabling a steady pipeline of skilled workers.
Additionally, apprenticeship and training programs would partner with local businesses to
ensure that, upon completion, workers are connected with employment opportunities within their
communities.
Who has to act for this to happen? (i.e. legislature, local governments, employers,
education/training partners, etc.)
To develop and implement a state-led clean energy workforce development strategy, there
would need to be continued commitment by the state to meet energy goals as outlined in the
Oregon Energy Strategy. Additionally, the Legislature would need to act to secure sustainable,
long-term funding for clean energy workforce development, with a particular focus on supporting
training programs integrating energy efficiency best practices and solar technology training into
curricula. Applicable state agencies would need to coordinate with nonprofit and community-
based organizations, utilities, community colleges and other partners to develop and implement
a statewide clean energy workforce development strategy. Employers would need to partner
with training providers and educational institutions to offer hands-on learning opportunities and
commit to hiring program graduates.
What existing state programs and policies does Oregon have that are most
helpful to you that you want to see continue?
What promising models or effective best practices have you seen in other states
that you’d like Oregon to emulate?
New York’s comprehensive, accessible website demonstrates how an integrated state system
can guide and connect the many players in the energy efficiency landscape, making it easier for
businesses, training partners and workers to collaborate.
* Do you have another focus area you would like to provide input on?
Yes
No
Additional Input
Page 4 of 5
