FOCUS
Tools For Growth
Site Readiness
& Infrastructure
Background and Problem Statement
Oregon’s land use system is designed to manage growth, protect natural resources, and support efficient use of
land and infrastructure. The state’s economic growth and prosperity priorities are directly tied to the availability
of development-ready land that can meet market and industry needs. Development-ready sites—as well as the
expansion of existing facilities—also require public infrastructure. Unfortunately, Oregon faces a persistent shortage
of development-ready land and infrastructure that limits the state’s ability to retain and compete for business
investment, which undermines the state’s growth objectives.
Summary of Stakeholder Feedback
Stakeholders consistently identified a lack of development-ready sites as a key constraint. Oregon does not have
a sufficient supply of sites with the characteristics needed to compete for traded-sector opportunities, and many
communities lack the infrastructure funding required to prepare sites for development. Businesses also cited the
extraordinary costs associated with expanding existing facilities, including water, sewer, utility, and transportation
system upgrades, that can significantly increase project costs and delay investment decisions.
Stakeholders report that Oregon’s existing policies, programs, and tools need to be expanded, accelerated, and better
coordinated and funded to increase competitiveness and reduce uncertainty across urban and rural communities.
When considering expansions of Urban Growth Boundaries, stakeholders note the definition of “available”
and “suitable” land often diverge from market reality, so inventories are technically compliant but are functionally
unusable. This disconnect creates uncertainty for businesses and limits the practical supply of land that can support
near-term investment.
Shared Vision
Oregon modernizes its strong land use system to better position Oregon to capitalize on traded-sector opportunities
while maintaining the values that have defined the state, shaped its growth and protected its farm and forest land
for decades. The system’s effectiveness is restored through targeted reforms, strategic alignment, and disciplined
investment. The state strengthens its future competitiveness by developing the community infrastructure, financing
tools, and sites necessary to attract and retain employers and support business expansion and job creation across
the state.
Priority Recommendations
Oregon cannot compete for jobs or deliver enough housing without a reliable supply of development-ready land.
Building on recent investments and policy direction established through HB 4084, the Governor and Legislature
should establish a significantly larger, dedicated, and recurring site readiness fund of $250 million per
biennium, using bonding authority in expectation of future tax revenues and economic impact. Deployed through
- 26 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
