Cerissa McFarlane 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The best climate for business is a highly skilled labor force that’s paidlivable family wages The best tools for growth are education and The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid Continuing to invest in our youth andfamilies!!! The Governor needs to allow the votersto speak for themselves. Stop trying to Preschool for All None. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prosperity comes from investing in ourcommunity!!! Let the voters speak for NA
apprenticeships and affordable housingpreschool is an economic silver bullet — it delivers a 3-to-1 return on Universal, free, high-quality livable family wagesgrowth are education and The best tools for pull funding for Preschool for All that we,the people, have voted for!!! themselves.
investment and raises family incomes by about 22% on average.three-generation poverty reducer that lifts whole communities. It’s among It’s a apprenticeships and affordablehousing Universal, free, high-quality
the best money a local government can spend to ensure better quality of lifefor everyone. Universal free pre-K is gaining momentum nationwide. The preschool is an economic silver bullet— it delivers a 3-to-1 return on
program we already have here is a national model for how it could andshould be done. Expanding it while keeping the quality high will help our investment and raises family incomesby about 22% on average. It’s a three-
region remain competitive when it comes to attracting and retainingworkers and their young families. generation poverty reducer that liftswhole communities. It’s among the
best money a local government canspend to ensure better quality of life for
everyone.gaining momentum nationwide. The Universal free pre-K is
program we already have here is anational model for how it could and
should be done. Expanding it whilekeeping the quality high will help our
region remain competitive when itcomes to attracting and retaining
workers and their young families.
Gina Altamura 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Preschool for All is under attack. The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid Universal, free, high-quality preschoolfor all families in Multnomah County, Our leaders must preserve Preschoolfor All! Universal, free, high-quality preschoolis an economic silver bullet — it Universal free pre-K is gainingmomentum nationwide. The program No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
family wages. The best tools for growthare education and apprenticeships and delivers a 3-to-1 return on investmentand raises family incomes by about we already have here is a nationalmodel for how it could and should be
affordable housing, 22% on average. It’s a three-generationpoverty reducer that lifts whole done. Expanding it while keeping thequality high will help our region remain
communities. It’s among the bestmoney a local government can spend to competitive when it comes to attractingand retaining workers and their young
ensure better quality of life for everyone. families.
Nan Campbell 97212 Both I am a local film producer,so I am representing my Private Business andProfessional Film andEntertainme 1 - 20 people Workforce Our biggest problem is that the private market is so volatile that it can behard to find consistent income and many of our best people have to leave Anything the government can do to helpour employees ride out the lean times An environment where even mediocreartists can find enough funding to keep Legislature and local government. Preschool for all, and arts grants. Housing for all and other programs thatprovide a safety net to help our people No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
personal small filmproduction company. Services nt the industry for the sake of their families. But this means that producingcontent here becomes harder and more expensive and the private market can help keep the best people fromleaving the industry. This helps keep themselves and their families cared for.Without being able to support our in case of periods of low income.People are more willing to take the
shrinks even more. the quality of our product up and thecosts down, which means the private budding artists, we will never get thegreat ones. risks that often pay out big time, if theyknow failing won't mean ending up
market turns to us more often, leadingto fewer lean times and less need for starving on the street or their kids notbeing looked after.
the government to step in. This meansboth more art grants and more general
services to help those with inconsistentincomes. I can't count the number of
people who have left the industry afterhaving children because they need to
be able to pay for childcare. Preschoolfor all has been really helpful, so more
stuff like that.
Olivia Mitchell 97266 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The Prosperity Council should address the challenge of business profitinterests interfering with prosperity enhancing measures that were voted in Focus on expanding universalpreschool as a long-term workforce and Flourishing, well-funded universal pre-K State and local governments mustengage in good faith with prosperity Expand Preschool for All NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
by constituents.silver bullet — it delivers a 3-to-1 return on investment and raises family Universal, free, high-quality preschool is an economic prosperity strategy. enhancing measures voted in byconstituents. Business leaders must
incomes by about 22% on average. It is key to any holistic workforcedevelopment strategy in our state. The Prosperity Council should advise must come to understand that the bestclimate for business is a highly skilled
within their mandate on recommendations which bolster prosperityenhancing measures that are already in place based on the will of voters. labor force that’s paid family wages.Given the imbalance of labor
The biggest barrier here is the council not establishing credibility withcommunities. representation on the ProsperityCouncil, this body should work to
correct this bias. There should be morerepresentation from labor and those
who will speak up for working families,and represent policies for economic
growth based on proven strategies ofinvesting in people and good jobs, not
tax giveaways for businesses.
Kevin J Schmidt 97123 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Price of gas. Lower the price. Drop the expectations, drop the taxes untilwe are as low as other states. We already have insane property taxes, Live within our means. Stop with all themoney graps you are giving away. Less governmental restrictions, givebusiness a break. The idea you tax This is you as the leader. Make cuts.Be strong. Get the police up to speed. Stop theoutrageous violent protest, stop the Schools are horrible, taxes are horrible,crime is horrible. Look at all the Yes Business climate NA How many business left Portland afterthe riots that were allowed. We are the Model Tn or AZ where the businessesare going. Growth in business and Oregon withnet growth gaining back what we lost. Model other states that are growing.How hard is that. The results speak for this. What youare doing is not working. Lower gas, lower tax, not increasewealth tax. Just look at their model and Yes Business climate You have taken in enough to build thehomeless their own homes. Why? Stop Change the rules, enforce the rules onthe books, work with the federal You will see a clean environmentwithout drugs. Businesses do do not You have rules. Enforce them. Modelwhat Phoenix did after they were sued More policing. You don't have one. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Go back in time when we enforcedrules. Stop making up rules like NA
business taxes and personal taxes. extra rich will only have them take theirbusiness and leave the state. How drugs at our border, work with thefederal government to get the costs of homeless and tagging in Portland.People do not have disposable income worst business model in the US> compete. the Sanctuary State. government. want to work in this climeate. for not enforcing basic laws. sanctuary cities. The cost has beentremendous in education, test scores,
much of a tax do you get when the aregone. What is 10% of zero? illegals in our jails out. Why do we wantto support financially in our state in our state like other states. Modelwhat works. Try Tn. businesses leaving, people leaving.Why? Uninsured motorist, crime inside
system when you can let the federalgovernment have them. cultural groups that are ruining theculture with fear. I personally stories.
David Weber 97013 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Climate Protection Plan implementation is dramatically increasing the costof doing business and living in Oregon Cancel the CPP and implement acarbon tax program similar to that in A fully functional carbon marketplace The Governor and legislature Energy Facilities Siting Council NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
California and join with California'sprogram
Peggy Carson 97435 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxation Lower taxes. The new tax policies areprohibitive to business growth. Arealistic tax structure provides moneyfor government - Oregon has one if the Legislature & local government As a rural citizen, there don’t seem to bemany helping me at all. I don’t know about other states.However, in our local government there Yes Tools for growth Toll roads The proposed toll system that is beingproposed. I have heard from reliable If a toll is absolutely necessary, which Ithink could be completely avoided with To get the job done without bankruptingOregon citizens. The governor, the legislature, & thecompanies scamming the state of I want to see rural counties not losetheir ODOT services. Nit familiar with other states programs. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I’m one of the people that wold becomepart of Idaho because Oregon NA
worst tax structures in the country, andit’s strangling the citizens of our state. is a huge difference. I moved toDouglas County & the government sources that Oregon is eorking toinstate a toll system. We slready pay accountability of/for estimates of workcosts & waste of taxpayers dollars, a Oregon government wants our tax dollarswithout representing us. I would like to
structure here is much more citizenfriendly than the one in Lane County high taxes, & now you want to impose ahigh toll for the new I-5 bridge into WA. less aggressive toll os imperative. see people outside of Portland, Salem& Bend get some representation & be
where most of my family lives. That’s not feasible for people who workon the other side of the bridge, or for treated like vslued citizens.
smaller employers to help with costs fortheir employees. The bigger companies
may help, but will in turn either raise thecost of goods or just move somewhere
else. We can’t afford to losebusinesses or jobs.
thomas liethen 97063-9613 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Over Taxation Quit excessive funding for homelessness Reduce taxes, stop ODOT over funding,return state government to an efficient No new taxes Drastically lowerspending on homelseeness Complete All of the aboce Not too sure pick any red state No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Janet Goggins 97477 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Small or family run business are hurting. We are over taxed. I have shut level of governanceSupport business, stop thinking overhaul of spendingIf nothing improves businesses will Local government Cannot name one NA Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
down three of my 6 stores, I just don’t think we can last much longer. business are bad and do not deserve aliving wage continue to close. The state will bebankrupt if the number one concern
continues to be illegals orundocumented as you choose to say
Christopher Anderson 97055 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The only chance for Oregon’s prosperity is to get Tina Kotex out of ourgovernment. Oust Tina Kotek Companies would return to Oregon.The people of Oregon would be heard The legal citizens of Oregon. Get rid ofsanctuary cities and state. Remove No sales tax, Oregon needs to emulate Idaho and orSouth Dakota No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Get Tina out of our government andeven our state. Go back to the east NA
again. We need Merkle and Wyden outtoo. No more career politicians. I force illegal immigrates coast where you came from
term limits 4 years and you’re out done.Oregonians
Bill Speer 97034 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Cut taxes Cut spending Fantastic Legislature Governor Dot,forestry Look at Idaho, Oklahoma or Florida Yes Workforce Homeless Outlaw drugs. Enforce drug laws. Current programsare totally failing causing more Clearer streets. Starts with the Governor and ends withthe local governments. Fish and game. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Lower taxes. To damn high. NA
Beckett Bergthold 97230 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The biggest barrier to long-term revenue stability for our public services and Provide education and childcare for all We would see an increase in For a predictable environment, we need Multnomah County's Preschool for All Expanding the program to provide free No NA NA NA homelessness.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I think the Preschool for All program NA
economic growth is pushback against universal policies for our childrenand our neighbors. The best climate for business is a highly skilled labor children living in our state. Adjust theminimum wage based on cost of living household incomes for families living inpoverty. We would see more purchases legislature and local governments tofollow on programs that are program. I'm excited for this program tocontinue to grow. I want to see it fully childcare for all, like what New York isdoing. The more support we can should be fully funded. We shouldexpand income taxes for high income
force that's paid family wages. indexes. Provide universal pre-k andchildcare to all children living in Oregon. made and increased home ownershipin our state, spurring the economy. We overwhelmingly supported by voters.We need our elected officials to funded to keep the quality high andexpanded. Providing universal, free, and provide workers, the more we stabilizethe labor force for businesses. earners to support universal earlychildcare. Raising a child takes a
would also see more movement intoour state from other states, and less continue funding programs throughtaxes on high incomes as this tax high-quality preschool will keep ourregion competitive for attracting and https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-hochul-and-mayor-mamdani- village. While my husband and I do nothave children, we are so thankful that
movement out of Oregon. model is feasible. retaining workers and their families.Funding the Preschool for All program announce-major-milestone-toward-launching-free-child-care as we increase our earning potentialwe can support pre-k and child care for
has a great ability to raise per capitaincome than business subsidies as it children in our neighborhood. We knowthat as their parents have more
allows parents to go back to work orreturn to school to increase their opportunities to work and increase theireducation, they will invest more in our
income opportunities. local economy. And we know thatuniversal programs have positive ripple
effects throughout their community.
Sherrene Walker 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Natural gas availability Allow has ranges, furnaces, got waterheaters, dryers Alot of natural gas in hives Legislature Trying to discontinue gas NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Jason Stabe 97267 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon has punitive policies in regulation and taxation againstbusinesses, driving them out of the state and with a tax revenue and Put a crisis team in place to addressthe loss of businesses out of the state Oregon not being second to last inbusiness retainment within the state This should be a coordinated effortbetween the governor's office, Our state needs to refocus on basicservices to the citizens and businesses Look to any state that is growing theireconomic base and people are moving No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Economic prosperity is paramount toprosperity of the state. The fact that local NA
employment opportunities for citizens. of Oregon. Focus on reducingburdensome regulation and taxation and third highest in unemployment. legislature and local governments.Oregon has been in contraction from an that reside here. Criminal lawenforcement and sentencing needs to to versus the states that they are leaving. officials have not figured this out andcontinue to focus on policies pushing
with the goal of incentivizingbusinesses to build and move to economic, business and citizenry viewfor years. This is why it should be occur immediately. people and businesses out of the stateis counterproductive.
Oregon. addressed as an emergency and bringall state level officials together.
Keith Moes 97351 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Regulations and tax burden Reduce regulation for growth andremove high taxes Increased number of business inOregon rather than losing them as we Legislature and all local governments None Look at growth in Idaho Yes Workforce NA Need more education in the trades Less state colleges and morecommunity colleges that focus on trades Able to fill trades jobs , something thatAI cannot do All of the above None Not sure there are any Yes Tools for growth Eliminate the ARB, what a waste ofeffort. I would eliminate the ARB and alsoreview all state agencies that hinder Business growth that moves everyoneforward Legislature None Do not know. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Review all state agencies. We knowODOT is a mesd NA
are now. Business expansion with lesstaxes and higher employment growth
John Duggan 97530-0524 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Difference in pay between frontline workers and business owners Level the playing field through higherminimum wage and rules to control Stronger middle class, better economy legislature Clean energy incentives/subsidsies Increase taxes on the very wealthy No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Our world is changing and Americanworkers are losing the middle class NA
worker abuse (e.g., unpaid overtime) that made us a strong nation. Increaseeducation and increase wages while
Richard j lint 97116 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth REGULATIONS ON BUILDING ELIMINATE PERMIT PROCESS LESS GOVERNEMENT COUNTY GOVERNEMENT NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA requiring the rich to pay their fair share.NA NA
Tristan Gillis 97224 Organization/Business PARR Public Forestry andWood Products Materialssupplier for 1000+ people Business climate Permit costs, permit lead times, our dying trade market with a 1:1 ratioversus somewhere like California with a 5:1. The energy efficiency ATTACK Pass law to REQUIRE SB-6 and 974 tobe strictly adhered to by every Building permits increase by 40%compared to 2024/2025 numbers. Governor, legislators, local government,trade schools. Suppliers like Parr are Haven't seen much in this regard to trulybeneficial policies. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Think about the end user, thehomeowner, who now pays a mortgage NA
residentialand on our building market. The egregious restrictions on timber and logging,as well as zoning requirements and urban growth boundaries. municipality, as well as HB 3918.State grants for trade schools, and tax Permit lead time average for residentialin Oregon is 40 days. Blower door tests, near pre-coved pricing on over 95% ofmaterials. Labor, concrete, and average of $2,700-$3,000 for a$450,000 home. Which means they
commercialacross all of breaks for companies hiring those outof trade schools for the first 3 years of reduced to a 4.0 ACH50increase by 30% UGB permitting has not come back down toreality. illegal labor crackdown on the need to earn roughly $120,000 just toscrape by. Our average salary in
Oregon andWA employment.on logging and zoning, and energy loosen up restrictions employers are needed as well, whetherknowingly employing illegal labor or not. Oregon under $70,000interest rate is not the problem. It is the The federal
efficiency requirements. price of homes increasing due to Stateled restrictions, requirements, permit
fee's, storm water systems, etc. Ourentry new home price should easily be
$350,000. We also need to tax out ofState buyers at a 6% fee, too many high
earning people coming to the statepushing long standing oregon tax
payers out of the running to buy a housein their HOME STATE.
Yvonne Davis 97013 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxation, law enforcement, education Expand law enforcement, bettermanagement of budget funds, stress More business expansion, lessuncontrolled destruction of All of the above but direction comesfrom Government. Education needs to Forest/fire management Polling stations vs mail in ballots. Iworked at polling stations in another No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
learning of actual job qualifiers and notopinions of instructors property/unmanaged criminal activity,better time use in classrooms on actual be focused on actual subjects and notoptions of instructors. state and it brings a sense ofresponsibility, respect for the process
subjects relating potential employmentneeds and community.
Merium Theiss-Clawson 97470 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Since Governor has chosen, along with Oregon Senate to raise businesstaxes that are not feasible for businesses to stay in Oregon. This is causing Reduce the business taxes, sobusinesses will remain in Oregon as We would have sustained growth. This action must be through legislationand state government not local! I can’t think of any state program orpolicy that Oregon has right now that is Pick any state but nothing on the WestCoast. The West Coast is becoming a Yes Workforce NA Because businesses are leavingOregon this will have a direct impact on Have Oregon legislation change theamount amount of taxation and NA NA NA NA Yes Tools for growth This question is quite hysterical. Sinceproof of legislative and governmental NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I would like to see a better balancebetween the sex roles! The way the NA
businesses to leave, which will remove Oregon’s financial base. With theincrease budget that she has elected. What are her options to fulfill the well as want to come to Oregon. useful!! very failed area. workforce. Where are people to beemployed? regulation for businesses of all sizesand this will help help the workforce. changes are driving businesses away.Unless this changes Oregon will be money is being spent, and the billsbeing created. It’s obvious Oregon is
budget needs? unsuccessful. wanting to be a multi diverse sexualstate. If the heterosexuals all leave this
state, what will Oregon become? It’s achild abuse to do what organs doing
with young children.
Elana Hutter 97212-1443 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate paying for parking on west side on the walking streets reduces ease andlure of visiting businesses. nw 23rd, downtown shopping, pearl. We can go Switch to 2hr free parking without permitaround the business districts. NA NA The outdoor seating for restaurants inthe parking spaces that have become NA Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The antisemetic graffiti needs to beremoved and addressed swiftly. It feels NA
eat and shop on east side without paying for street parking. It is a smallthing that effects people's everyday and ease to visit those local permanent are great, keep them. less safe with rising Jewish hatred andtargeting that has been allowed
businesses more regularly. For small buisnesses the 50k threshhold forbuisiness taxes is very low and then its a cliff instead of graduated so it globally, in the US and especially herein Portland where propoganda has
doesn't incentivize sole proprietors and entrepreneurs with small businessto scale from 30k to 70k or 45 to 100k because the marginal tax rate for convinced well meaning individuals thatJews should be excluded, harassed,
portland city residents is the highest in the country. Small businesses andsmall business owners invest dollars directly back into the city at high rate. threatened, attacked.
Ron Mathis 97015 Both Heat and Frost InsulatorsLocal 36 Private NA Constructionand 101-500 people Workforce Permitting and Regulations More it affordable and inticing for newbusinesses to come to Oregon More businesses opening up in Oregon Legislatoin and Local Goverments BOLI High Hazard Legislation, like California.Safety Standards in the bidding No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon needs jobs for the skilled workforce to continue turning out the very NA
Maintenance process. Use of PLA's "Project LaborAgreements" best trained work force for our Statesfuture.
Stephen Stover 97304 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Equity (Marxism) as the focus of our public schoolsgeneration of Oregonians will live in poverty or institutionalized. It also ensures the next The State Superintendent of PublicSchools must return to an elective A greater emphasis on manufacturingand technical training and the ability to The legislature has had a laser focuson social justice, gender manipulation, None. A 46 year resident, I have witnessed anincremental focus of government on the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The current governor lacks the ability tolead and solve problems. Her solution NA
makes every aspect of our existence dangerous as jobs are staffed byincompetents. position and not remain a politicalappointee who is just one more cog in quickly adjust that training to an everevolving job market created by elected and thoroughly reputed, man caused‘climate change.’ They are not up to the takers and hateful rhetoric toward themakers who pay for everything. This to every issue is a new or higher tax,declaring an ‘emergency,’ or forming an
a far, far, left political agenda that putsour state and it’s citizens at extreme risk. officials who have actually work for aliving and raised families in Oregon. task as currently constructed. Avisionary who has been proven to get attitude has made Oregon unaffordable.This maker is ready to pack up and go unwieldy 30 person committee to doher work for her.
things done is what is needed. Thoseindividuals are few and far between. back to my home state of Ohio whichhas a lower income tax, lower property
taxes, and no death tax that steals thefruit of 46 years of labor.
Nina Rose 97527 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Availability of people wanting to work. It is very difficult to find employeesthat will show up to work on time and put the effort into keeping their job. The state has to stop paying people tostay home and do nothing. If they are 2-3% unemployment rate State legislature aiming funds towardthe unemployment dept. and verifying Head start Nationwide problem. Let's lead thepack. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
on unemployment they need to showabsolute proof that they are applying for they are doing their job.
jobs they qualify for. Have a way for HRdepts. to quickly file a form online when
they hire someone, and that persondoesn't even show up to work. Then
discontinue their unemployment. Setupsafe, free child care for families where
both parents are employed. I wouldmuch rather have my taxes paying for
hand ups not hand outs.
Jim Schulz 97023 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Lower taxes so we can afford to stay in Oregon Lower business taxes and regulations A positive number of new businessesin Oregon in lieu of a negative number Legislator and governor None. Burn it down and start over Texas No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Milton Bernheisel 97443 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The state interferes in business. The state taxes us at every step. Thestate regulates EVERYTHING! There is no growth with this choke hold on Get the state out of private business's.Let the free market work. No state interference, reduces taxation,reduced regulations, reduced reliance NO ONE needs to act on this. That isthe problem. Too many want to control None It is nearly the same all across America.There is no freedom to live and move No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Nothing else. I doubt that ANYONE willagree with me. Politicians have NA
the people. on politicians telling us how to manageour affairs. the people. as God intended man to be. grandiose ideas that are all doomed tofail since they want more regulations,
more policies and hey want to createnew laws all the time.
Julie Farrell 97035 Both Rate Mortgage Company Private Business andProfessional Finance/Housing 1 - 20 people Tools for growth The one size fits all challenge with statewide regulations that may not workwell in individual towns. I would like the city or local municipalityhave the opportunity to work with the Individual cities being able to governthemselves around land use, legislature as well as local governments I am not aware of any I have not seen the models and hope tolearn more in this space. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I am new to this table but have apassion for helping where I can. I hope NA
Services state to implement the changes thatwork for their specific area. development and buildingcodes/permitting to help bring positive ideas when I can.
GeneEnos 97401 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Anti-business/Political regulation climate that, like Washington state, ischasing businesses out of Oregon and creating fear in developing A complete change of management thatis crushing business growth and A return yo a more "Business positive"culture, where businesses are not Yes, it must be a culture wide acrossthe board change and, unfortunately, Tax incentives to attract growth for allbusinesses, across the board to Develope and promote an "open tobusiness" culture and stop chasing old, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Promote our state resources likelogging, energy development that will NA
business here in our state. expansion. looked at for more taxes, but areencouraged to expand, create and government has the leadership role.For this administration, it is an encourage developement here in thestate. established business out of Oregon. generate jobs and stabilize economicgrowth.
attract new businesses to the state.What government is now doing is not extremely "heavy lift".
working.
Simon Brown 97123 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Energy pays the bills. Protect jobs by lowering environmental regulationsagainst gas. Getting rid of communists that hidebehind environmental causes to Happy families and a prosperousworkforce. Voters need to vote for the RNC. Nothing. Socialism works for those who don't. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Family formation has stalled for familycourt and immigrants who don't NA
No Name 97201 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Where to start…how about quit taxing and placing a fee in the name of destroy western culture.Roll back taxes and fees, get rid of th A republican governor and majority in The people of Oregon None Just look at Florida and Texas…did just No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA assimilate won't make tomorrow better.Prosperity does not equate to NA
whatever social bullshit you democracies come up with so you can backdoor support (funnel money) to the DNC DEI bullshit and focus on what reallymakes a difference jobs and th ability to the state chambers fine during Covid and are attractingpeople and business every day. compassion (read the response to thefire that elephants owner put out after
prosper. the fire destroyed a large part of theirbusiness)…sometimes adults have to
make hard decisions and that is (adultsand hard decisions) sorely lacking with
the ‘leaders’ of portland and at the statelevel!
Breonne DeDecker 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Lack of support for k-12 public schools. Oregon kids are in school a fullyear less than children in Washington. Public education needs far more Spend far more money on publiceducation. Having more robust budgets for publicschool systems, lower classroom The legislature and the governor. NA Higher investment in public education. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
finding from the state to increase instruction hours, lower class sizes, andprovide the social services needed to ensure kids can graduate with the sizes, and more instructional time forkids.
skills needed to join the workforce or continue on to college and becomehighly skilled workers.
Donald Keller 97035 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Stop allowing near do wells from wanting to be first to stifle the continuedbusiness as has been happening Stop acting like Gov. Newsom More like Idaho Legislators NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ERIC BRANT GILL 97225 Both We are a tire retail businessin Oregon and 15 other Private NA transportation / retail 500-1000 people Business climate I have been part of the Oregon economy for the past 55 years and haveseen the basic balance of business interests and other interests fall out of The business and personal taxstructure is broken. We need to look at A proactive approach to collaborationwith all the different interest groups. All but starts with education of thepeople that is truthful. All things need NA Idaho, Utah, and Arizona are alladopting a more balanced approach to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA See to truly understand views from allsectors. business, both small and big, NA
states. I am the CEO andfounder balance. More and more Oregon businesses cannot afford to make Oregontheir home. This is starting to have a ripple effect on the economy. Last I a more balanced approach. Some ofthe added taxes in the past six years There needs to be a give-and-takeapproach. The extreme approach has balance. As of now there is not balance.This will continue to drive down the taxing both companies and individualsin order to achieve a balanced budget. I educators, retired, new to the state, andfarmers. need to see all angles
read, Oregon had the 3rd highest unemployment rate in the country. Weneed to make Oregon an attractive place to do business. This will then have continued to drive business out ofOregon. Without a growing business been all-or-nothing, passing taxes thatare either not for a vote or poorly economy until changed. come from a long line of public schoolteachers, and they all feel that the
allow us to accelerate the economy and help support other efforts thatOregonians want to push forward. community, the state will continue to fallon hard times. The example is Portland designed and not executed, like thekindergarten tax. support and use of resources arelacking. They don’t see a shortage but a
proper, which is even worse than thegeneral state. misuse. I know this isn’t everyone'sview, but because many of them have
spent time working at district officesand admin positions, I’ve seen this
perspective from many angles.
Michael Kelly 97603 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Overreach in regulations. An over taxation of all businesses. Great evaluate all the regulationsgoverning all different businesses The people of Oregon named to focuson getting obstructive politicians out of All Republicans within the state ofOregon need to ensure when it comes A present I cannot see or find one.Major corporations are leaving in the Quite frankly, I don’t see any. Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
within Oregon. Business assistantcannot continually be over taxed and office. There is too much Democraticcontrol of everything that goes on in this election time that they get out and vote.The only way we can take back our state state by the numbers. Due to theDemocratic over regulating and over
over regulated and expect there to besuccess and for the state, and state. It is governed by an insane ideathat they know everything and everybody is to vote. Democrats are so corrupt andI like to cheat every chance they get they reach in the states well-being.
specifically our governor to think thatthat is how you make it work obviously else is stupid. At this date, it is wants tocontinue to exist in an economic level want all the illegal immigrants to votefor him. We have to have a safe, an
she was never in business. positive to all of the citizens theDemocrats have to go. efficient electoral system in Oregon.
Mindy minnick 97302 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Attacking Natural Gas is not a valid action for improving the environment oraffordability. End all anti natural gas regulations andlegislation. Natural gas is an Unobstructed use of natural gas in allareas of Oregon, including new Local government and legislature Use of natural gas in residentialconstruction. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If you truly want prosperity for The stateof Oregon and its residents, you will not NA
environmentally safe, effective, andaffordable energy source in an age construction. hinder the use of Natural Gas. If youhinder the use of Natural gas in
when energy is becoming increasinglyscarce and expensive. Oregon, you will have proven yourself tobe an ignorant and fraudulent entity
controlled by anti American factions.
Joan Browning 97035 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The Council's intention of markedly reducing use of natural gas energy iseconomic suicide. Why cut off an available, lower cost energy source which Let the people choose without forcingon us energy modes which cost much Natural gas availability and access hasnot been throttled by progressive Local and state government. Unaware Unaware No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Karen 97501 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate helps me stay in my home as other home expenses continue to rise.Business taxes more.Lower all taxes on small business oversight.More small businesses flourishing Local, State and Federal No NA Yes Business climate NA Payroll and tax’s on products sold. Make small business exempt Local communities with more State and local governments Oregon is tough on small business. We Let local governments and individual No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
owners. rather than just getting by. restaurants and small businesses ingeneral. Less big box stores. lost 2 in the last 3 years due to Covidpolicy. people and businesses choose how torespond to crises without state
Michael O'Connell 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Getting permits Getting permits done in a timely manor Having permits in 2 weeks local governments I'm not sure of any Be more business friendly and if you No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA government interference.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Find a way to replace PERS NA
are going to tax us to death at lease usethe money wisely
Anders Liljeholm 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Oregon is 49th out of 50 states for childcare affordability. Parents can'tafford to work because of the high cost of childcare. Universal Preschool for everyoneallows parents to work and raises Universal preschool for all Oregoniansfree of charge. Support and do not alter Preschool forAll in Multnomah County and expand it Multnomah county's Preschool for All. New York City is offering free childcarefor all ages, not just preschool. Better Yes Tools for growth NA Massive cuts to school funding Increased K-12 school funding, tied toevidence based reading curriculum Smaller class sizes and increasedreading fluency for students State legislature, governor NA Mississippi's reading program No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
family incomes, which are spent locallyin the community. statewide. access to childcare gives parents moreoptions to work.
Elia Unverzagt 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I want small businesses to be supported and encouraged to operate withincentives to stay open and to be taken care of in case of emergencies, I think there need to be subsidies andsupport in case they're broken into or More successful small businesses,less open for rent buildings. It would Legislature and local governments. Preschool for All! It's amazing and ithelps us all. Any that encourage and support smallbusinesses. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Let's bring prosperity back to Portland.Specifically downtown and the inner city NA
break-ins, etc. have a fire, etc. look like it did 15 years ago here.Thriving and happy and creative. areas. I miss being able to walkaround, feeling safe, and enjoying my
Robyn M Harris Robyn MHarris 97217 Both World Explorers Preschool Private Business andProfessional Child Care 1 - 20 people Business climate Dismantling the critical need of free and affordable childcare. Childcare inthe state is at an all time low. Oregon families are unable to afford childcare Continued support of Preschool for Allin Multnomah County Piloting a similar program in othercounties Everyone needs to support the futurechildren of Oregon with access to Preschool for All (Multnomah County) Preschool for All (Multnomah County) No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA city.N/A NA
Services or apply for ERDC, as well as limited spaces in Head Start and PreschoolPromise programs. quality education no matter your socio-economic status. A disinvestment in
children in the most critical times intheir lives is disinvestment in all our
futures.
Joshua Eichen 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce How to support existing families in Oregon. NA NA NA NA NA Yes Business climate NA The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid The best tools for growth are educationand apprenticeships and affordable NA Expand universal free pre-K statewide. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
family wages. housing. Universal, free, high-qualitypreschool is an economic silver bullet
— it delivers a 3-to-1 return oninvestment and raises family incomes
by about 22% on average. It’s a three-generation poverty reducer that lifts
whole communities. It’s among thebest money a local government can
spend to ensure better quality of life foreveryone. Universal free pre-K is
gaining momentum nationwide. Theprogram we already have here is a
national model for how it could andshould be done. Expanding it while
keeping the quality high will help ourregion remain competitive when it
comes to attracting and retainingworkers and their young families.
Greg Norman 97222 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Child Care for workers WE need to implement childcare for all. Families with children would be able toget jobs. Legislature Time off when you have a baby. The state of Germany has betterworkers rights. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We make incentives for megacorporations and make hurtles for NA
small businesses. Give the smallbusinesses protection from megga
corporations that use their power andmarket share to push out small
Elizabeth Higuera 97203 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth education housing wages continue and increase taxes on hig preschool for all regional schools fully legislature, local and state government, NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA businesses.Private equity is a scourge on the NA
earners and shareholders BECAUSETHATS WHERE THE MONEY IS funded a start on affordable housing,requires 30% of income or less. NO unions STOP TRYING TO WEASELOUT OF MEASURES APPORVED BY economy and public life generally.Corporations are in no way persons
PRIVATE EQUITY IN HOUSING,EDUCATION, FOOD OR HEALTHCARE VOTERS. preschool for all and theconsequences for missing legislative and do not need or deserve rightsthereof. The deep poverty in our nation
sessing come to mind and state is a blight and a shame to us,but especially to the affluent and
Kiki Aardsma Kosokoff 97220 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Corporations and the superrich have too much say in our state government. We need higher taxes on corporations Better education. PPS just laid off 300 Legislature and local government. Preschool for All Portland Street New York is beginning a program that Yes Workforce NA We need universal living wages in Better training for our workforce. Better funded schools, more affordable Tax the rich. We need legislature and Preschool for All. It’s a three-generation NA Yes Tools for growth East Portland has been long ignored Tax the rich. Tax corporations that use Revitalization of neglected Legislature, local governments. Preschool for all continues to help NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA powerful.Stop letting the ultra rich and NA
The people need to decide how our state is run. Corporate money and thewealth of the superrich should not decide how working families can thrive and the superrich. Those taxes need tosupport social services, including workers. The Parkrose School Districtis incredibly underfunded. The Response will offer free childcare to ALL childrenages 0-5. When our children are cared Oregon. Why are corporations and thesuperrich benefiting while many Continue and extend preschool-for allso that workers can work and deepen housing, and living wages would meanthat more workers have more time and local governments to come together totax the rich. The economic gap is too poverty reducer that lifts wholecommunities. It’s among the best and left to rot. The TIF may help, but weneed more economic growth in areas our land for to fill the pockets of theultrawealthy. neighborhoods and areas, less gunviolence, more community spaces, families grow and create income.Opening more sites across Multnomah corporations take away the peoples'decisions. We voted and we stand by
in Oregon. schools. If businesses want tosucceed, then they logically should superrich are in the ear of the Governorin an attempt to eliminate the for by skilled and trained workers, thenparents can be better workers Oregonians can't make ends meeteach month? The best tools for growth our economic successes.rich. The superrich are benefiting from Tax the energy and space to refine their skillsand create economic growth. disparate. money a local government can spend toensure better quality of life for everyone. like Parkrose. Stop allowing largewarehouses to take up our land and more small businesses, less hard druguse. county would ensure that more familiesare able to thrive. Stop allowing big our votes.
want their workers to succeed. Workingfamilies cannot succeed with shabby groundbreaking Preschool For Allprogram that ensures we have themselves. This ultimately benefitsbusinesses in Oregon. are education and apprenticeships andaffordable housing. and exploiting the hard work of ourOregon working class. space. Stop using East Portland adumping ground for the things tourists business to use our land to exploitworkers.
school systems and no childcare. schooling for young children. Oregonhas the least number of school days don't want to see when they visit. Investin our infrastructure and remember that
per year in the country. Why is this? Weneed more funding for our schools. we are working families that contributeto our city, county, and state in
The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid numerous ways.attacking our people-led Preschool for The ultra wealthy are
family wages! This can only happen ifwe continue to support our schooling, All program that delivers a 3-to-1 returnon investment and raises family
including PFA. Our schools aredesperate for funding. incomes by about 22% on average. It’sa three-generation poverty reducer that
lifts whole communities. It’s among thebest money a local government can
spend to ensure better quality of life foreveryone. Stop allowing the ultra rich
and corporations control ourgovernment. The people have spoken.
Let us decide.of hard drugs has continued to ruin our The re-criminalization
city. When the people voted to de-criminalize drug use, we were told that
there would be a second and essentialcomponent of rehabilitation for folks
with substance use disorders, and wewere not given that second component.
Instead, you all decided it was a failurewhen you actually set us up to fail. This
Melissa Schultz 97203 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Less investment in those who are not working and more investment infamilies and those who are working and still struggling. Investing in schools and preschool forall. Up stream investment into children Robust school systems with teachersand admin that are invested in the Clearly all of the above Preschool for all. Oregon health plan. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA has national repercussions; no otherNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I am fatigued by the amount ofinvestment that goes into people who NA
helps working families and thecommunity as a whole. community. Preschool for all that is notalways threatened by lack of funding. are not working or contributing to theeconomy while draining the income that
is coming into households of workingfolks-especially lower and middle class
folks who are just getting by.
Cole logan 97322 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The Oregon climate protection program is harmful to business, specificallythose in the natural gas industry where I am employed. I have a great Make Oregon more business, friendlyby lowering taxes on businesses and More freedom of choice for potentialcustomers and builders to use natural Governor, legislators and other policymakers NA Responsible fiscal spending, abalanced state budget. And lower taxes No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Government needs to be more fiscallyresponsible. NA
career at NW natural and I fear it is in jeopardy due to the non-businessfriendly approach oregon has taken as of late. I fear I will have to move my ending or seriously revamping theclimate protection program, to make gas by limiting the amount of restrictivepermitting obstacles created by the CPP on businesses and the middle class.
wife, who is expecting our first child, and myself to another state where thebusiness climate is much more friendly to businesses and therefore the Oregon more business, friendly,therefore, more employer, friendly.
employees. Ending the restrictive permittingprocess for builders and customers to
use natural gas therefore limiting thenegative effect it’s had on company
growth for businesses in the naturalgas industry.
