503.220.0575
310 N State St, Suite 216
Lake Oswego, OR 97034
www.dhmresearch.com
January 30, 2026
To: Angela Wilhelms and Preston Mann, Oregon Business & Industry
From: John Horvick and Tony Iaccarino, DHM Research
Re: OBI 2026 Legislative Survey Executive Summary
SURVEY METHODOLOGY
This mixed-mode survey, combining phone and text-to-online approaches, engaged 600 registered Oregon
voters across the state. The sample size enables comprehensive analysis of voter opinions overall and across
demographic subgroups. Statistical weighting by age, gender, race, education level, income, party affiliation,
and area ensures that results accurately represent the registered voter population. The margin of error for the
full sample is 4.0%. Due to rounding, some totals may differ by 1 from the sum of individual responses.
KEY FINDINGS
• Voters are pessimistic about the direction of the state. Only 26% say the state is heading in the right
direction, with positivity remaining stubbornly low since 2021. Most voters say the problems facing the
state are getting worse: 85% saying cost of living and 77% say housing affordability are worsening.
• Elected leaders get low ratings for job performance. 64% disapprove of Governor Tina Kotek’s job
performance, 64% disapprove of the Oregon Legislature’s performance, and 55% disapprove of President
Donald Trump’s performance.
• Economic outlook is poor and Oregonians are struggling to get by. 73% rate Oregon’s current
economic conditions as poor, an increase from 60% in 2021. 68% say conditions are getting worse, an
increase from 62% over the same period. Nearly half have difficulties paying for essentials like groceries,
healthcare, utility bills, auto insurance, and home mortgage or rent.
• Voters blame high taxes and excessive regulations for Oregon’s sluggish economy. 52% think
Oregon’s economic growth rate is slower than the national average, 42% about the same, and 4% faster.
Asked to explain the slow growth, 23% mention high taxes and 21% mention excessive regulations. No
other reasons are cited as often.
• Voters favor a pro-growth strategy to tackle upcoming state budget deficits. 52% prefer reducing
regulations and creating incentives to spur economic growth, jobs, and tax revenue. 27% support
spending cuts, and 12% favor raising taxes to fully fund programs. Voters favor the first approach,
regardless of party affiliation.
VOTER SENTIMENT
Positivity about the direction of the state remains low. Only 26% say the state is heading in the right
direction. Positivity has remained low, hovering below 40% since 2021. Partisanship shapes outlook, with only
5% of Republican and 23% of NAV/Other voters saying the state is headed in the right direction, compared to
46% of Democratic voters. Still, even among Democratic voters, fewer than half are positive about the direction
of the state.
