Dear Members of the Prosperity Council,
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the Governor’s Prosperity Roadmap and the
development of a long-term economic strategy for Oregon. The wine industry appreciates the
Council’s work to identify actionable steps that will strengthen Oregon’s competitiveness,
support workforce development, and improve the overall business climate. As a cornerstone of
Oregon’s food and beverage economy, the wine industry plays a critical role in supporting rural
communities, driving tourism, and contributing to the state’s overall economic success with an
estimated $8.5 billion annual economic impact.
The Oregon Winegrowers Association (OWA) is a member-driven advocacy organization
advancing the interests of one of the state’s most significant agricultural economic sectors. Our
hundreds of winery and vineyard members represent over two-thirds of Oregon’s wine
production. For more than 40 years, OWA has advocated for policies that support the health,
growth, and long-term sustainability of Oregon’s wine industry.
Feedback gathered from wineries and vineyards across the state reflects a consistent message:
while Oregon remains a desirable place to live and operate a wine business, the cumulative
impact of rising costs, regulatory complexity, anti-alcohol messaging from state leaders and
agencies, workforce challenges, and infrastructure constraints is placing increasing pressure on
the industry’s ability to grow and compete.
Business Climate
There is a general sentiment that Oregon is becoming a more difficult place to run a wine
business and there is strong concern throughout the industry regarding anti-alcohol messaging
and a lack of visible state support.
Recommended Actions:
● Governor Kotek and state agencies should actively promote and champion
Oregon’s world-class wine industry as a leading driver of tourism, employment,
agriculture, and regional economic development. Oregon wine industry leaders should
be consistently represented in state-led economic development, trade, and tourism
efforts, including domestic and international trade missions, business recruitment
activities, and official state events.
● The Oregon Health Authority’s efforts should focus on addressing problem drinking and
alcohol abuse, rather than discouraging moderate consumption broadly. Elements of
the Rethink the Drink campaign have unfairly targeted the wine industry and
should be revised to better reflect the distinction between abuse prevention and
responsible, moderate consumption.
● Increase the use and promotion of Oregon wine at official state events, including at
the Governor’s residence Mahonia Hall.
