Office of the President
Oregon State University
600 Kerr Administration Building
Corvallis, Oregon 97331
P 541-737-4133
F 541-737-3033
oregonstate.edu
TO: Office of Governor Tina Kotek, Business Oregon, Oregon Prosperity Council
FROM: President Jayathi Murthy, Oregon State University
DATE: January 30, 2026
RE: Oregon Prosperity Roadmap & Economic Development Strategy Framework; OSU
Alignment, Gaps, and Strategic Contributions
Oregon is at a critical economic inflection point. Population growth has slowed and the
workforce is aging, private-sector and traded-sector growth continues to lag national trends.
These dynamics heighten the urgency for a coordinated, statewide strategy that strengthens
productivity, innovation, and workforce readiness while ensuring growth. The Prosperity
Roadmap and the Oregon Economic Development Strategy Framework provide an
important opportunity for aligning statewide assets around these challenges and accelerating
durable, inclusive economic growth.
Oregon State University (OSU) appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the draft
Oregon Economic Development Strategy Framework. As Oregon’s land-grant university,
OSU recognizes the importance of economic competitiveness, resilience, and shared
prosperity as core to the state’s future and to our institutional mission. These priorities are
embedded in OSU’s Prosperity Widely Shared strategic plan and guide our research,
education, Extension, and economic engagement efforts statewide. In FY2024, OSU
generated $3.5 billion in statewide economic impact and supported 22,141 jobs,
underscoring the university’s role as a pillar of Oregon’s economy. OSU operates programs
in all 36 Oregon counties through the OSU Statewides, ensuring and equitable access to
education, innovation, and economic opportunity.
OSU’s value to the Prosperity Roadmap and the Oregon Economic Development Strategy
Framework can be summarized in three integrated capabilities: talent development,
translation of research into companies and jobs, and statewide delivery through our
Extension and regional presence. Together with the state and in partnership with Oregon’s
universities, community colleges, and other partners, OSU is committed to leveraging these
capabilities to advance workforce readiness, innovation, and regional prosperity across
Oregon.
OSU aligns closely with the vision and goals articulated in the Governor’s Prosperity
Roadmap and Business Oregon’s Economic Development Strategy Framework and views
them as an important framework for advancing Oregon’s long-term economic
competitiveness, resilience, and shared prosperity. As the plan moves toward
