From: Lois Cho lois@GETCHOWINES.COM
Subject: Fw: SEDCOR/CHO Wines Discussion Follow-up
Date: February 17, 2026 at 10:00 AM
To: Harry Clapsis harry@amperecomputing.com
Cc: Bogue, Emerald Emerald.Bogue@portofportland.com, renee@625.onmicrosoft.com, Robinhold, Curtis
Curtis.Robinhold@portofportland.com
EXTERNAL EMAIL:
Some further input from the EDO perspective.
Lois
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Abisha Romano <ARomano@sedcor.com>
Sent: Monday, February 16, 2026 10:36:50 PM
To: Lois Cho <lois@GETCHOWINES.COM>
Cc: Erik Andersson <EAndersson@sedcor.com>
Subject: SEDCOR/CHO Wines Discussion Follow-up
Hi, Lois
Thanks again for the great discussion regarding business support needs. I had it in my
notes to send you a few examples of how the state might be able to better support
business innovation and investments. Though we collective have 643+ examples to share,
our team selected the short list below to start with. Please let me know if these types of
examples are representative of what you’re looking for. I have copied in our President, Erik
Andersson, for follow-up questions or additional requests.
1. The Company: Chapul Farms is based in McMinnville and uses food industry waste
streams as feedstock for black soldier flies. In this process, they upcycle organic
waste streams into high-value feed and soil fertilizer. The majority of black soldier fly
larvae and soil amendment we use in domestic farming comes from international
sources. Their process provides a beneficial use for organic waste material, while
creating a high-protein organic feed for chickens and other animals (larvae), and high
value fertilizer.
a. The Problem/Opportunity: DEQ does not know how to handle this company’s
request for managing their organic inputs (which is feedstock for the black
soldier flies, and also waste from the food industry), like it’s feedstock. Instead,
they are forcing the company to secure local and state permits as a composting
facility. Composting facility certifications can take upwards of 18 months and
have very high requirements for product movement and air quality
management. But this business is not composting any materials. Their system
is fully enclosed and the inputs re handled like cattle or hog feed. Cost and
timing to permit has caused several funding and timeline launch obstacles for
the company. This would be a great opportunity for DEQ to be entrepreneurial
and find stop-gap solutions for this company as they determine how best to
classify this new, innovative and environmentally beneficial business process.
2. The Company: The Estate Bakery was a project that attempted to land in Yamhill
County several years ago. This was seen by the owning partners and regional
supporters as vertical integration on farming property near Perrydale. The partners
owned farmland with existing facilities and grew ancient grains on-site. Their goal
was to begin milling the grains and producing high quality breads on-site. They also
