2 . TA X E S
industries. At the same time, stakeholders emphasized the need to maintain stable, predictable funding to support
top public priorities such as education, healthcare, and other core services. Stakeholders also highlighted the
importance of ensuring government spending is efficient, transparent, and aligned with outcomes. Any reform must
balance stable public funding with policies that strengthen Oregon’s long-term economic competitiveness.
Portland-Specific Issues
Layered local income taxes combine to make marginal tax rates for households uncompetitive with adjacent counties
and states. Over the past three years, Multnomah County lost $3.5 billion in personal income through out-migration
to other counties and states, including nearly $730 million to Clark County in Washington (Vancouver). The net
effect undermines the region’s job creation priorities, weakens overall economic competitiveness, and results in lost
revenue for needed public services.
Portland Metro stakeholders noted challenges with overlapping local income taxes, structured sunset reviews for
new tax measures, and higher signature thresholds for tax-raising ballot initiatives. The Portland Central City Task
Force’s Tax Advisory Group’s report identified needed changes that remain unimplemented. High-earning households
and business leaders have options, and Portland has become unattractive, making its public revenue base more
fragile and undermining the state’s prosperity.
Shared Vision
Oregon creates a stable, competitive, predictable tax system that funds important public services, attracts
investments, retains talent, and supports business growth and the state’s long-term prosperity. The state fixes
its structural inefficiencies, improves alignment between state and local tax policy, and builds a broader, more
resilient revenue base. These reforms rebuild public trust through greater transparency, accountability, simplicity,
and confidence that tax revenues are being used effectively to deliver measurable outcomes for Oregonians.
Priority Recommendations
The most important step the Governor and Legislators can take to address Oregon’s uneven tax structure is to
support moving Oregon beyond its current “one-and-a-half-legged stool” model, which relies heavily on personal
income tax and constrained property tax revenues. Reform should aim to strengthen long-term revenue
stability, diversify the tax base, reduce volatility, and increase contributions from nonresidents. Achieving
a more balanced and competitive tax system may require broader-based revenue tools that can be more regressive
in isolation. But when paired with targeted investments in education, housing, healthcare, early childhood programs,
and other essential services, they can support more equitable long-term outcomes for Oregonians. Over time,
revenue growth and the elimination of ineffective programs and tax expenditures can help fund these investments
while improving Oregon’s competitiveness for business, talent, and investment.
2027 Legislative Session: Strengthen Oregon’s Economic Competitiveness
While the Council agrees that more comprehensive reforms are ultimately needed, the following recommendations
move the state closer to a balanced tax system in the near term, help businesses of all sizes innovate and
employ more people, and make Oregon a more competitive place to do business. At this critical time when
- 18 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
