WEA will continue to be clear that experts from the private sector are critical to the success of these
efforts. We’ve identified the problems and provided reasonable solutions. This work needs to move in
real-time and not be slowed down by years of work where the process becomes the outcome. We stand
ready to work alongside Metro to help our region realize Jobs Ready Land that will benefit our
workforce, our economy and our communities.
RECOMMENDATIONS TO METRO:
Recommendation #1: Metro Council should adopt a resolution that acknowledges a clear problem
statement similar to below.
• Our existing Urban Growth Report does not tell the full story of the region’s long-term land
supply. Much of the industrially zoned land is inadequate or undevelopable and does not meet
the needs nor the criteria of the market demand. Metro should acknowledge this issue and
partner with us to develop a strategy to evolve our regional approach to more accurately reflect
our “buildable” land supply and take action to ensure that we do have adequate and
appropriate buildable industrial land available to support a bright economic future for our
region.
Recommendation #2: Metro Council should provide additional direct support for jurisdictions.
• Allocation of funding through the 2040 Planning and Development Grants for cities to bring on
full FTE or hire consultants to support planning efforts including, but not limited to, analysis of
and changes to zoning, comprehensive planning, and other planning needs related to growth for
the duration of their economic analysis project. This should happen by the end of 2026.
• Help jurisdictions utilize site-specific, mid-cycle industrial land UGB expansions as appropriate.
No city has utilized this process since it became available in 2010. While it is encouraging that
such a process exists, its under-utilization points to it either being inaccessible or not cost-
effective for cities to pursue.
• If necessary, an outside consultant should be brought in with Metro resources to work
with local jurisdictions on identifying what support they need to be successful in their
future planning processes.
Recommendation #3: Metro Council should consider changes to Title 11 to support efficiency and better
use of public funds.
We understand that this work is connected to other elements of the UGB expansion process. In order to
better streamline processes to support efficiency and use of public funds, some initial suggestions
include:
• Acknowledge that the concept plan phase is required to include a robust visioning/public
process, including preliminary infrastructure funding plan, preliminary transportation and utility
plans, and preliminary zoning plans.
3
Industrial Land Readiness Workshop | Memorandum of Recommendations | February 11, 2026
www.WestsideAlliance.org
