5 . TA L E NT D E V E L O P M E NT
Shared Vision
Oregon’s talent development system is coordinated, accessible, and aligned with the state’s economic opportunities.
Clear pathways connect Oregonians with the education and training they need to access good paying, in demand
careers, supported by strong partnerships across K–12, Career and Technical Education (CTE), community colleges,
and universities. The system is responsive to the needs of small, medium-sized, and large employer demand and
designed to deliver a reliable pipeline of skilled workers for key industries. Reduced participation barriers and shared
accountability measures ensure the system delivers meaningful results for both workers and employers.
Priority Recommendations
RECOMMENDED
The Governor should establish a Cabinet of Economic & Talent Development
STATE GOALS
with the authority to align state agencies around measurable economic,
education, and workforce outcomes. The Cabinet should be composed of
RANK
leaders from relevant state agencies and charged with accelerating coordination TOP
TOP 10
10
across agencies, breaking down silos, and driving accountable, results-oriented MATH &
READING
strategies tied to Oregon’s long-term competitiveness. The Cabinet should lead
and implement a statewide Talent Alignment Strategy to align Oregon’s K-12,
EXPAND
community college, university, and workforce development systems across
STEM & AI
rural and urban communities around measurable economic and workforce
PROGRAMS
outcomes, while looking for opportunities to streamline and consolidate boards
and councils. The strategy should build from the recently released Oregon
EXPAND
Talent Assessment and must establish ambitious statewide goals tied directly CAREER-
CONNECTED
to Oregon’s long-term competitiveness, including making Oregon a top 10 state
LEARNING
in math and reading proficiency and significantly expanding STEM, AI and related
CTE
retraining and upskilling, career-connected learning, CTE, apprenticeships, bridge
APPRENTICESHIPS
programs, dual credits, and industry partnerships. The Cabinet should propose BRIDGE PROGRAMS
DUAL CREDITS
legislation that would require adoption of proven best practices and explore policy
INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS
levers, including preemption where necessary, to ensure consistent statewide
implementation and accountability. Oregon should build on emerging sector-
based workforce consortia and better align education and training with industry demand. Oregon’s education and
workforce systems must operate as a coordinated talent pipeline that prepares students for high-demand industries,
attracts employers and families, and creates long-term pathways to family-wage careers in Oregon.
Strategically align higher education funding to match West Coast states and support Oregon’s long-
term economic competitiveness. Oregon’s universities and community colleges are critical drivers of workforce
development, research, innovation, and business growth. The state should modernize higher education funding
structures to better support industry partnerships, applied research, technology commercialization, and enrollment
growth in high-demand fields such as artificial intelligence, biotechnology, semiconductors, advanced manufacturing,
and clean energy. The Legislature should also commit to ongoing funding of the University Innovation Research Fund
(UIRF) at $20 million per biennium to leverage matching federal research and innovation investments and strengthen
Oregon’s position in nationally competitive industries.
- 30 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
