Rebecca Teborek 97212-5261 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Cleaning up the state. Homelessness and an overall lack of pride,cleanliness and safety does not encourage people with resources to invest Support campaigns includingbillboards, commercials encouraging Incentives and highlighting cleansidewalks, buildings, window displays. Everyone. Remember the no littercampaigns. Increase the bottle At city level, several agencies couldemployee people in the maintenance In Europe they come through late orearly with small rideable machines that No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We have a gas tax why not a trash tax! NA
or spend time in most commercial areas. personal responsibility andopportunities to clean up grounds and reclamation amount. More public trashpickups. Create jobs for trash pickups. catgegory. clean common areas and sidewalks.Trash is emptied everyday.
buildings. Low entry point for unemployed peopleand youth.
James Ofsink 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Measure 5/50 reform. Property taxes need to be brought back into realityalignment with property values. Given that Oregon's nation-leading land Measure 5/50 reform. Property taxesneed to be brought back into reality A plan for property tax reform/resetwhich would put us back on a path to Legislative and executive branchesworking with local governments. Not sure Not sure Yes Workforce NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
use laws are an important part of what makes our state attractive anddesirable to live in, how can we stimulate economic growth and investment alignment with property values. We doneed to streamline permitting in many funding education. Creation of andpublic education around success
without expanding urban growth boundaries? What can the state do tomake sure that economic growth is broadly shared by all and not only parts of the state without compromisingregulations that protect our metrics that are reflective of communityprosperity. Movement on permitting
business owners, investors, and executives? Oregon's measures ofeconomic prosperity need to be meaningfully tied to the finances of environment, our workers, and thecommunity. standardization/reforms that take thebest practices from our environmental,
typical/average workers and not just a single number heavily influenced bya small segment of society. labor, and community safety regulationsand simplify the ways that businesses
can be sure to be in compliance. Plansfor infill and 21st century business
development within existing UGBs.
Susan Nelsen Murphy 97222 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Housing, childcare, and utility costs are too expensive to attract a reliablepool of high-quality workers. Build more housing. Change zoninglaws to increase density. Support and Businesses doing the work in thoseareas (housing, preschool) will thrive Largely legislature and city/countygovernments as I understand. Multnomah County's Preschool for All ismy #1. I wish I knew of something Can't speak to other states but I willreference the public internet option in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Two things: 1) There is an initiative inpetition circulation stage right now to NA
fully fund universal preschool statewide,after the Preschool for All model. and create jobs, for one thing. related to housing that's alreadyworking. Efforts to build social housing Sandy Oregon as highly successful andpopular. That, and that type of public levy a wealth tax. This absolutely MUSTpass. 2) Single-payer healthcare MUST
Support any efforts for public utilities. should be supported. utility (for power, in particular) must bechampioned and expanded upon. pass and MUST utilize a sharplyprogressive tax for funding.
Susan Nelsen Murphy 97222 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate dfas a fda af da a fea a fda a fdsa Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Kathleen Davis 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Education (middle school through higher ed) I would like to see employment readyhigh school students graduate with an Higher high school graduation ratesEnrollment in higher ed. focused on Legislature must fund education Links between high school andcommunity college, more on-the-job Take a look at Wisconsin Yes Business climate NA Too much funding, tax breaks andsupport for large businesses leaving Grants, tax breaks to small businesses Longevity of our current small businesspopulation and growth of this sector Legislators, local governments I don’t know of any There is an apprentice program forwomen who want to become plumbers Yes Tools for growth Again, more focus on small businesspopulation Low interest loans, training programs,OJT Growth of small businesses, educationand training programs in the trades Governor, legislators, local employers NA Women in plumbing program (name Ican’t recall) Mt. Hood College had to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ability to get meaningful work. Thisshould be linked to meaningful meaningful, local work training programs (especially for girlsand women) out small businesses cut programs PSU had to cut programsfor persons with disabilities
classroom instruction, on-the-jobtraining and curriculum linked to
meaningful, realistic opportunities inour communities.
Henry Balensifer 97146 Both Oshkosh AeroTech Oregon,Inc. Private Metals andMachinery ElectricHeavy 21-100 people Business climate Manufacturing overtime rules have killed competitiveness with other USmanufacturers. Foreign manufacturers already have lower cost equipment-- Lift or increase the caps tomanufacturing overtime. Employers Manufacturers will have retained morefull time employees with benefits, and Legislature & BOLI. Business Oregon is helpful forconstruction, and mildly helpful for We looked at one time to relocating toReading, PA. They had land available, Yes Tools for growth NA Infrastructure outside of the I-5 corridor.It really is lacking. The state must see Increase OBDD IFA funds available forcities to upgrade water and wastewater New construction and new expansionsof existing facilities would increase for Legislature has to appropriate funds,OBDD would have to create the OR Dept. of Aviation is helpful as aresource and for local airport projects Florida and Georgia has someinteresting infrastructure programs tied Yes Workforce Lack of real connection betweencommunity college programs and Community Colleges have welding andother trade programs, but often times More students staying in Oregon thatreceive the Oregon Promise or any I am unsure who set that policy if it wasOED or ORLEG. There are industry specific avenuessuch as CCC's MERTS campus, and I I am unaware of any. Yes Tools for growth Joint Removal Fill Permits. There is noreason for DSL to even be involved Either remove DSL from having to bemore than notified of a USACE Faster approvals, clearer and moreobjective standards creating permitting Legislature and DSL rulemaking. There is no redeeming quality aboutDSL. I would rather work with DEQ and Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida.not look to Washington or California. Do The weakest part and potentiallybiggest pitfall with this whole entire NA
EquipmentManufacturin even after tariffs. However, US equipment still has some edge. That edge isgone in Oregon because unless you're a season fishing business you should be able to compel 50 hours perweek for periodic needs up to a month improved competitiveness in costagainst other US competitors. sustainment. We have taken advantageof some of the foreign trade-show access to a trained workforce to startand free training programs where the municipal wastewater and watertreatment facilities as essential to facilities if it is tied to economicdevelopment. That, or provide some existing Oregon businesses. program or have legislature do so. and the businesses that require accessto or benefit from airside proximity. to new business development. Oregonthough needs to stop concerning itself actual industry needs. they focus on the student getting anassociates degree vs. either getting a other large public scholarships. think the state should have a center ofexcellence in a specific trade field for when the USACE already has stringentstandards, unless there is a way to removal/fill permit application, or find away for DSL to just execute the base certainty for land preparation anddevelopment. DLCD than DSL. They go out of theirway to be problematic. They attend a lot process is the governor did not imbueDirector Knopp with any powers to bring
g cannot even offer overtime to manufacturing employees. This law wasintended to protect employees but just made them get second jobs; on the or up to 45 days a year, and employeesought to be able to choose for funds. Business Oregon also providessupport and connections through the state funded the development ofprofessional training programs for your economic development--not just amunicipal problem. Constant changing sort of loan system to pay forincreasingly super expensive pre- with poaching businesses and growexisting businesses. There's little certification or simply passingfunctional tests. Furthermore, Clatsop each community college.subsidizing sports coaches and Also--stop remove USACE from the equation.DSL is among the most obstreperous federal requirements if the feds wouldallow it. of meetings, pretend to listen, saythere's nothing to be done but spend the bureaucracies to heel. There is nopower to force rulemaking changes or
other side, it may require a business to get part time employees or fill thegap with temps--which leaves employees more at a disadvantage without themselves any overtime that exceedsthose thresholds or amount per week. SBDCs and extension. However, whatwe really should expand on is the OMIC business (no limit on size), and thenalso had a partnership program of requirements by DEQ on wastewaterdischarge above the EPA requirements treatment systems. support felt for existing businessesunless you cut fat checks to politicians. Community College does not offer a lotof flexible schedules for students. essentially entertainment staff forcolleges. They should not be PERS agency when it comes to anydevelopment on or near water of any more money and wait a few years, andthen deny or add more goalposts after execute her will. Without such power, itdevalues the position from a change
benefits. This enables employees to haveeconomic freedom, and manufacturers style innovation, education andmanufacturing synergies. More OMICs available through Penn State Berks thattook design and prototyping projects for only passes the cost to businessesmaking pre-treatment a requirement for (case in point Intel and Nike's specialsession tax breaks during the kitzhaber Companies are willing to provide day-jobs for students that are pursuing employees and should be solelyfunded off sports revenues. We should kind. Coastal and riverine border cities. the fact. agent to one that goes to a lot ofmeetings with already obstreperous
to meet surge demands. to assist big and small manufacturers. businesses and incubated and testedthem--the business paid for the any expansion. era). trade skills, if they can take the classesat night or post-shift. Instead the focus on teaching at colleges, not majorsports venues. I get that helps the town state agency directors who will say thesame thing they say to businesses,
material, they covered the labor, and thebusiness got to keep the IP. community colleges focus on traditionalschedules and programming--which out with restaurants and lodging, but itdoes nothing for manufacturers, and business oregon and their regionalsolution coordinators, "Sorry, but this is
work for faculty, but not businesses withlimited labor pools in rural areas. non-visitor oriented businesses. the rules."bureaucracy to heel. Part of that will take Somebody has to bring the
Community colleges should offerlimited dormitory housing for students if the governor's leadership, and part ofthat will be the legislature stop
they are to attract out-of-countystudents. Also Oregon's colleges are interfering with operations by strippingthe governor of direct power and
focused on improving students with noconcept of the costs. In short, why do transferring it to these unelected boardsand commissions.
we offer the Oregon Promise tostudents who shortly thereafter leave to
the Dakota oilfields or some out of statejob or school? If large scholarships are
offered to resident students, theyshould have some obligation to at least
attempt to stay or try to find employmentwithin the state or pay back the prorated
value of that education. The stateshould not be subsidizing other state's
Rich Peppers 97213 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Streamlining regulatory processes (while preserving what they are Adopt "One-Stop-Shop" models (both Start-to-finish timelines and numbers of Depends on situation: construction Environmental/climate protections; Not familiar with other states' programs Yes Tools for growth NA Balancing the gains of economic Pause tax incentives at their current The above principles would be being Legislature and local governments; environmental/climate protections; unfamiliar with other states' programs No NA NA workforces.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
supposed to protect) online, by phone, and in physicaloffices); smooth areas of overlapping steps required significantly reducedand noticeable reduction in number of permitting, business licensing, etc. schools.higher ed; worker protections;voting/civil rights processes development vs the broadercosts/impacts when considering levels or even reduce them for aspecific time, and during that time applied at a statewide and communitylevel to help guide economic employers. schools/universities; workerprotections, land use protections
jurisdiction with inter-agencyagreements; staff up to necessary complaints. (Targets set depending onsituation.) incentives, financial or otherwise.Remember location decisions are evaluate the cumulative impacts ofalready-approved development on development decisions.
levels to reduce turnaround times; havewell-trained, empowered customer- usually (often mainly) about more thanjust taxes. community water supply, power needs(and how they will be met), land use
support teams easily available. Etc. impacts, etc, and growing demand forpublic services vs revenue growth to
deliver those services. Do a balancedcost/benefit analysis that protects
communities' and the State's overallinterests in the future.
Barbara Byrd 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Workforce systems need to align not just with employer needs, but alsowith the well-being of individual workers and their communities. These Encourage worker/union participation inthe development and implementation of Workers in general - especially low-income workers without college The state workforce system and thelocal workforce boards have an BOLI's apprenticeship and trainingsystem Both Washington and California haveworkforce systems that Oregon could No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Decisions about tax breaks, land useand other incentives to business NA
systems need to be oriented toward training for family-wage jobs - jobs thatalso provide health care and pension benefits. This training also needs to training programs. Don't leave this upto higher education institutions alone! educations - would have the informationthey need to access training; would be important role to play, as do employers,unions and community organizations. emulate. should be CAREFULLY scrutinized fortheir impacts on communities (tax
take into account job placement and career ladders. Union-employersponsored apprenticeship programs are a good example of this approach. Employers need to share the cost oftraining, not just rely on publicly-funded able to pursue training without up-frontcosts and loss of time on their existing Tax breaks to employers thatimpoverish communities and are not losses), the environment, smallfarmers, etc.
programs. jobs; and would be informed about"next steps on the career ladder" in passed along to workers should NOTbe enacted or expanded!
addition to entry-level employmentopportunities.
Erik J. Andersson 97301 Both Strategic EconomicDevelopment Corporation Non-profit NA Economicdevelopment 1 - 20 people Business climate Moratorium on new regulations and state-supported tax increases As the Governor's Prosperity Councilwas announced, other initiatives were There would be the start of some relieffrom regulations and tax burden coming Agencies need to work together with theGovernor and the Legislature. While Regional Solutions could be a majorasset if there is prioritization of work Required review of cumulative impact ofproposed taxes and regulations to Yes Tools for growth NA Oregon industry-specific incentives tendto be limited to whatever the hot industry I would prioritize Oregon's naturalresource based industries - it's part of Strong branding of the state as a greatplace to invest in new technologies NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
being implemented that were directlycounter to the council's stated goals. A at businesses from state, local andregional government. Oregon has a good framework inRegional Solutions, its strength is and agency leadership also tasked withidentifying solutions. businesses. And if a transit district hasthe power to enact a new payroll tax, is at the time (e.g. semiconductor,solar/renewable energy before that). the state's brand, it's what we're knownfor, and many parts of the state identify associated with forest products, blueeconomy and ag tech. Opportunities in
Governor-appointed board at Cherriots,the Salem regional transit authority, maximized by the agency directorsworking with the Governor to identify that board should be comprised oflocally elected representatives rather The problem is that with limited funding,all other industries tend to be ignored themselves by their traditionalindustries. We should be highlighting each corner of the state to participate inthese innovations.
announced a .7% payroll tax; currentlySalem area employers pay a .01% ways to work together to address costsof doing business, industrial lands than Governor-appointed. as a result. opportunities for innovation in woodproducts, agriculture, food and
statewide payroll tax to fund transit. Asthe Cherriots board is Governor- readiness, etc. You cannot expect theregional teams to be fully effective if beverage, as well as renewable energy,recreation products and environmental
appointed, this plays like an othermandated cost of doing business. there is no strong direction coming fromthe top down. sciences. The respective supply chainsof each of these industries would
Meanwhile, the Energy Trust of Oregonis promoting resources to address represent a good majority of Oregonbusinesses. And we would highlight the
Building Performance Standards,energy efficiency standards put into state of the art technology like masstimber being developed in the state,
place by the Legislature in 2023. Thetiming of both of these initiatives, which while promoting what makes Oregonspecial.
will impact the bottom line ofemployers, is ironic at best. When
addressing Business Climate onemust look at the totality of the impacts to
businesses, as it seems like newregulations and taxes are coming from
a variety of directions.
Steve Curley 97756 Organization/Business Redmond EconomicDevelopment, Inc. in Non-profit Metals andMachinery Compositesand carbon 1 - 20 people Tools for growth The cost of infrastructure to create shovel ready sites is one of our biggestchallenges. We need to come up with solutions that provide a partnership I would suggest a shared cost modelthat the state could help underwrite More businesses able to build projects. I believe it would take the legislature tocreate this tool. Enterprise Zone program. Simplified Enterprise Zone program. Yes Business climate NA I would like to see the CAT addressedas this is a significant cost for If the CAT can't be eliminated, at leastraise the floor so the impact would be A better tax environment for businessesthat will give Oregon a higher retention Legislature. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon can no longer expectbusinesses to locate here just because NA
collaboration with EDCO. fiber as wellas other opportunity with municipalities and private developers. Unique tools thatwill help fill the gap so development can happen. upfront costs with future privaterevenues going to payback the state. An business. I also think that a state withsuch high tourism should consider a less on smaller businesses or reducethe rate. rate and see less businesses leavingthe state. of quality of life. One of our savinggraces is that our neighbor to the south
advancedmanufacturin example of this would be a LocalImprovement District, but potentially sales tax while exempting items likefood that are necessities. Use other is so much more expensive andregulated for business than Oregon that
g. carried by the state. peoples money that are visiting ourstate. The TLT is a good example of this. we reap the benefits of thosecompanies moving here. In my opinion,
that's not a great strategy to be secondworst.
Marion Koehler 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The stealth increase in property taxes and broader scope of the tax burden.It seems that every time there is a need for money, legislature is very quick Overhaul of the current tax programsand structure; audit and public Oregon has established other ways ofcollecting funds; Property taxes have Legislature, government. voting by mail Take a look at tax structures forWashington and California and see No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
to introduce a Bond or bill that increases property taxes or adds yet anothertax to an already heavy tax burden. The property taxes are not presentation of how existing funds thathave been collected through taxes (ie been reduced by at least 25% and noadditional program-specific taxes are what could be applied to Oregon.
commensurate with the value of my home, and even without new bondsetc, represent a 3% increase per year. Even while employed at a high-tech Arts Tax???) are being used withincreased focus on how any new being collected.affordable for individuals to reside in As a result, it is more
company, I VERY seldom saw an increase in my salary of 3% per year.This is not sustainable as an individual, now on a fixed income. Also leads request for funds would be used.Reduce the overhead for collection; a this state and folks are not leaving indroves for neighboring states (while
me to question whether existing funds are being used properly withminimum overhead and for the purpose they were intended. Oregon good example is the overhead involvedfor collecting the Arts Tax, only to learn being employed here) because the costof living is much lower elsewhere.
property tax burden is higher than California and Washington.. this year that much of the funds havenot been applied to the stated purpose. Which in turn leads to Oregon missingout on income from their property/sales
reconsider implementing a state salesReduce the property taxes and and income taxes, as they will be paidin other states.
tax; at least start with applying a salestax to non-residents. Borrow Best
Known Methods from California andWashington - if other states can do it,
why can't Oregon?
Aaron Barber-Strong 97230 Organization/Business IBEW Local 48 Non-profit Metals andMachinery ElectricalConstruction 1000+ people Workforce Craft licensing, Prevailing Wages, Working conditions, Work opportunities I would like to see PWR rules tightenup. Ban PWR abusers from projects A state and local economy that worksfor all legislature, local governments,employers, education/training partners BOLI at the bare minimum. Pre-apprenticeship programs, and state New York: PWR on all public worksprojects with no minimum threshold. Yes Tools for growth NA LRT / Solar licensing and regulations Rid of the LRT license The LRT card holders will do a littlemore work (apprenticeship) and get a legislature, local governments,employers, education/training partners IBEW and other Union affiliated Tradesapprenticeship programs NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
with PWR. Keep licensing laws andrequirements string JATC's (all crafts) California state PWR rules andpenalties. Limited Residential electrical license.This will offer a more prosperous future
Larry Holzgang 97601 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon has long had the reputation for having a high tax burden, but that At the very least Oregon should sunset It would be great if Oregon was in the Legislature. I don't know how to answer. Just North Carolina. Yes Workforce NA There is a shortage of workforce in the Allow more than one apprentice per in the electrical industryWe have a larger workforce in the Not sure. Legislature, controlling NA Don't know Yes Business climate We need to reduce regulatory hurdles at You need to have an independent entity Oregon has a healthy environment Legislature. NA Texas and Tennessee. Yes Tools for growth Oregon doesn't have a very deep Oregon should put more emphasis Attracting new corporate headquarters Legislature, local governments, NA Texas, Tennessee, North Carolina, NA NA
was really referring to income tax for individuals. Once upon a time Oregonwas very competitive for corporations. But not true anymore. the Corporate Activity Tax. top 10 for states with a low tax burden. Business Oregon has around 72different programs that are worthwhile. Trades, yet we limit how many studentscan enter apprenticeship. This is journeyman, at least in rural areas.Also Oregon is pretty arrogant when it trades. Citizens and industry canactually find plumbers, electricians, and boards, education, BOLI. the local and state levels, especially inLand use, DEQ, and State Lands review regulation at DEQ, and possiblylook at funding DEQ in a different way. without tamuch tax burden on citizensand industry. playbook for economic development. behind business expansion,recruitment and retention. Oregon's instead of watching them leave thestate. education. Michigan
I couldn't possibility go through everystate department to effectively answer. especially acute in rural areas. comes to reciprocal agreements withother states. It seems this is designed other trades people. (wetlands). DEQ needs more staff to processpermits in a timely manner. Example. I tools for this have not changed in 30 to40 years. We should modernize our
to keep journeymen out and limit theworkforce. We should seek to expand was recently quoted it would take 1 yearto issue an air quality permit. 3,4, or 5 programs to be competitive with otherstates.
reciprocal agreements with otherstates. That includes teachers. years ago, DEQ would get a permit outin 6 months. 20 to 30 years ago, it was
even quicker. One part of the problemis staffing levels, but another is they
have more work to review. Clean AirOregon was implemented because of a
serious health issue caused by a glassmanufacturer in Portland. So now every
company seeking an air quality permithas to complete a Clean Air Oregon
report that asks about chemicals orheavy metals that do not relate to their
industry. This costs the company timeand money to complete, and required
extra time at DEQ to review. But thishas a low ROI when it comes to
reducing health risks to Oregoncitizens. You should sunset the
program.permit for wetlands is a very expensive Obtaining a remove/fill
and time consuming process. Thismakes many industrial parcels
undevelopable. DSL is not focused oneconomic development, so they do not
focus on making the process moretimely. If a community doesn't have an
Esteban Ortiz 97031 Both The Gorge Association ofAspirations Non-profit NA Environmental, 1 - 20 people Tools for growth When it comes to self employment programs and starting a nonprofit. Theiris no programa or even idea how any state agency can help. Realize that unlike a business. Anonprofit applies for funds and if they Have the self employed programsinclude nonprofits. Program that will Head of the state agencies andgovernors office. Self employment with the employmentdepartment. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA adequate industrial land supply, theyNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA With the lack of enforcement and workby BOLI. If they can not do the work have NA
farmworkers get a contract through a governmentagency. It takes many months to receive facilitate cooperation and knowledgewith state agencies. the funds for nonprofits like mine thatdo the work. Same goes for ODHS.
the funding. So basically the personstarting the nonprofit is unemployed.
Lynde Paule 97210 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Alignment of workforce needs and training/education of people interestedin work Ensuring that alignment was presentalong with appropriate recruitment of Presumably, an appropriately skilledworkforce. Employers and education/trainingpartners. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Nick Sauvie 97266 Organization/Business ROSE Community Non-profit NA Community 1 - 20 people Business climate Lack of affordable housing and homelessness. Unaffordable housing people to fill jobs.Upzoning to allow 3-story walkup Oregon would meet the Governor's The legislature, local government. Oregon Housing and Community Social housing has been successful in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Development Corporation development makes it difficult to attract talent to the state. Homelessness is a bad lookfor business, especially in downtown Portland. apartments in more areas. Simplify andspeed up development approval housing production goals. We arecurrently falling far short. More pre- Services and the Portland Clean EnergyFund have good programs and are Vienna and Singapore. Seattle andother places in the US are
processes. Stop giving veto power toNIMBYs opposing new development. apprenticeship and workforcedevelopment programs in the responsive to their partners. implementing similar projects.
Do not gut Oregon's land use laws,especially for things like data centers construction trades.
that provide few jobs.
Tanner Drey 97402 Organization/Business Ehlers INC Private Business andProfessional Construction 21-100 people Business climate The state has made it challenging to hire and removed incentives to grow abusiness. Rewarding businesses for wanting toscale and hire is the best local stimulus. Set goals and rewards for hiringworkers instead of reducing the legislature, local governments first, thenBusiness follows. Whatever is put in Initiatives that fund trade education,streamline licensing, and support local States like Texas and Florida have set astrong example by streamlining No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services workforce to cut costs, and look forprograms that reward growing place, bad policy restricts businessgrowth; good policy expands it. contractors help businesses. permitting, maintaining consistentregulations across jurisdictions, and
Erin Moore 97103 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth I think there should be tax benefits to creating more jobs. And I think those Less regulations, tax breaks for new or businesses.More new & expanded businesses, Legislature needs to develop business I like that Oregon is allowing naturally aggressively developing their workforce.A more streamlined tax structure. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
should be the same for small businesses as well as large corporations.There also needs to be other tax benefits to starting new expanding businesses, tax breaks forcreating new jobs. Treating homeless more base tax revenue (yes there wouldbe tax breaks, but the increase in tax cuts for new/expanding businesses.Legislature needs to lessen hemp-derived Delta-9 THC beverageswithout a bunch of taxes and reporting Oregon keeps adding little taxes thatare for specific programs onto a base
businesses/operations in Oregon. Right now other states are looking waytoo good compared to Oregon and we are losing corporations right and left. law-breakers the same as homed law-breakers & creating rules around the revenue would still be great, since morebase revenue even with tax cuts is regulations around new buildingpermits and new business models. and regulations (beyond strong safety &labeling ones). I think more programs that is extremely complex and mangled.I wish all taxes could go into the
We need to look to other states for guidance into how to make ourbusiness climate more supportive for new and existing businesses. We homeless that are closer to the rules ofour neighboring states so we aren't better than lessening base revenue).More jobs, lower cost of housing Legislature needs to amend ourregulations around the homeless to that have less regulations (so long assafety and labeling are well-covered) General Fund and be allotted at eachperiod's budgeting. I also want the rainy
also need to stop adding more regulations around building codes andenvironmental studies and all the hurdles that go along with doing literally overburdened like we currently are. because of more opportunity to buildnew houses. Homeless people in tiny better match those of our surroundingstates. Legislature needs to create one will help Oregon grow. day fund (= tax refunds to Oregonians)gone - if we have a surplus, that should
ANYTHING new in this state. I know proponents of these mean well, butthey are stopping businesses in their tracks, which will eventually lead to a homes and better cared for in treatmentfacilities; homeless people not as giant tax pool (General Fund), get rid ofthe rainy day kickbacks (maybe that's a be rolled over to future years, or kept inan actual rainy day fund that can be
major economic collapse in our state, as fewer large taxes are collectedfrom large corporations that end up leaving or not building here in the first concentrated in Oregon because of ourbeneficial laws in this state that put us general vote, though), and get rid of allthe little tax collections for various tiny drawn from in a down year. Get rid ofthe complexities of the tax structure and
place. So many people want to move here, as it's a wonderful state, but weneed to support that desire with supporting businesses too. Of course we in a favorable light for the homelesswho are looking for their best options. projects. We need to take examplesfrom other states who have healthy allot from only the General Fund. I knowother states have much better tax
want to protect the environment, but if we also want to be successful andeconomically strong, we will need to continue to deplete it, as sad as that business growth (while at the sametime reasonable environmental structures (WA?) that we could emulate.
is. We need to take notes from the book "Abundance" and stop all theendless regulations and fees and studies that we require around new standards), more manageablehomeless populations, and more
businesses. There has to be a balancing line between strong minimumregulations and attracting new and expanding businesses. We also need straightforward tax structures.
to lessen the restrictions around enforcing rules on homeless people inour state. There are serious issues in my community with some "bad
actors" getting away with very bad behavior, and the police have their handstied as there are very strict rules in Oregon about how we can treat the
homeless. I think we need to focus on building tiny homes, on treatmentfacilities and support, and on treating them like we would anyone else. If I
broke the law, I would go to jail. If I were homeless and did the same thing,I could potentially get away with it scot-free. This is not fair. Homeless
camps and tents all over cities in Oregon are also scaring tourists awayand making beautiful, desirable towns less desirable. We need to model
our homeless policies off of our adjacent states so that we don't get somany of them here. We are the state they come to because of our policies.
Connie Ashbrook 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce At the least, they should be spread out more evenly so a broader federal (orQuality, accessible childcare that is available for the non-standard hoursworked by construction workers, health care workers, hospitality workers Investment in quality, affordablechildcare availability. This will take state Quality affordable childcare = moreavailable workforce, less absenteeism. Legislature and local governmentsneed to provide the funds and work to I'd like to see the continuedenforcement of prevailing wage Massachusetts Girls in Trades waslaunched in 2015 by a partnership of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and others. Also support for prevailing wages so that prosperity is sharedto the workforce. resources as very few families canafford childcare. Investment in Continued fair taxes, those who canafford it contributing the most. develop systems to provide quality,affordable childcare. They also need to standards, the continued investment byODOT into workforce and supportive educational, governmental, and unionorganizations with a shared goal of
education at all levels. Fewer tax breaksfor big business. Continued support for Protection of clean water and climate.Quality education available at low or no work to ensure prevailing wages oncommercial construction projects, so services for apprentices. supporting and encouraging femalecareer and technical education
prevailing wage requirements so thatworkers and their families benefit from cost for all ages. that workers and their families willbenefit from their hard work and be able students and alumnae to pursuecareers in the building trades.
building our communities. to invest in their communities. https://www.massgirlsintrades.org/about/mission-and-leadership/ This kind of
investment and celebration of girls andyoung women in Career & Technical
Education pays off in alleviatingworkforce shortages and generating
prosperity for families.
Donnie Evans 97355 Organization/Business ENTEK International LLCand ENTEK Membranes Private NA Clean TechManufacturin 101-500 people Business climate Climate Protection Program for Emissions Intensive, Trade Exposedbusinesses like ours. Through the CPP, DEQ has proposed to regulate We encourage the Governor's office toexplore exempting Emissions Intensive, In 2-3 years, Oregon manufacturers likeENTEK should have certainty that the Governor and the EQC. NA Currently, the CPP regulations are moreburdensome and costly for EITEs as No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
LLC (together, “ENTEK”)own and operate polymer- g emissions from ENTEK in a way that will make our Oregon businessuncompetitive. Curtailing or restricting ENTEK’s ability to produce battery Trade Exposed (EITEs) from the CPP.As a percentage of total statewide EITE CPP will not require more than ispossible to achieve, allowing us to compared to a similar program inWashington.
based film manufacturingfacility (“the facility”) located separators from its Oregon plant would result in leakage of greenhousegas (GHG) emissions from the state. More significantly, the CPP would put emissions, ENTEK contributes lessthan 1%. Nevertheless, the jobs and remain focused on thriving here inOregon.
at 250 Hansard Avenue inLebanon, Oregon. over 500 Oregonians out of work and disrupt supply chains thatOregonians rely on everyday, all without reducing global greenhouse gas economic output for our communitycannot be replaced. Alternatively, we
Founded in Lebanon,Oregon in 1984, ENTEK has emissions.9 out of every 10 vehicles in North America, including critical emergency ENTEK's battery separators are used in batteries that power request that the Governor work withEITEs to make sure that the program
emerged as a global leaderin battery separators. response and military vehicles, as well as EVs. ENTEK's batteryseparators are essential to Oregon's growing clean tech economy. works for their specific facilities,including important regulatory
ENTEK is the leadingdomestic manufacturer of backstops and offramps forbusinesses that cannot economically,
battery separators.Separators are microporous technically or feasibly achieve furtheremissions reductions. For example, for
membranes that control theflow of ions between battery EITEs, the CPP should exemptemissions from pollution control
electrodes that power theentire unit and are critical to equipment that is required by Oregon'sair quality laws and regulations.
a battery’s performance.Without separators, a
battery would not function.ENTEK also makes
specialty membranes forother non-battery
applications.employs approximately 500 ENTEK
people at the Lebanonfacility campus. Beyond its
significant contribution tothe local and State
Harper Haverkamp 97214 Both economy, ENTEK’sLebanon facility has anWorkers Tap & Cafe Private Food and NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The taxation for mega-coffee chains and bar-and-grills, corporate income Increasing corporate income tax for Lower cost to start and operate small Legislature - with bully pulpit from NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Economies are built bottom up, by local NA
Beverage taxes as an example, are far too low, and have made Portland into a townmore friendly to Starbucks and Dutch Bros. than small local startups like large multi-state or multi-nationalcorporations. Using revenue to offset business. Governor corner stores, shops, bars, and grocery.Not top-down from the largest players in
ours. We need to ensure mega corporations pay an equitable share topossibly lessen the burden on small startups and local stores - it should reducing taxes for small business. the nation and globe.
be most competitive for small scale resilient growth and difficult for largecorporations to use Portland as a business playground.
Tucker Billman 97070 Organization/Business Oregon Rural ElectricCooperative Association Private Business andProfessional ElectricUtility 500-1000 people Business climate The preliminary results of Governor Kotek's ongoing litigation of the FederalColumbia River Power System will lead to a roughly 6% rate increase to Withdraw from the lawsuit against theFederal Columbia River Power System Passing caps on wildfire liability andOregon withdrawing from a lawsuit that Governor Kotek can solve the FCRPSlitigation. The legislature will need to NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
(ORECA) Services Industry Oregonians who rely on electric cooperatives for electricity. This does notcreate an inviting climate for new businesses, makes survival much harder and recognize hydroelectricity as a vitalpart of Oregon's clean energy goals. is needlessly increasing rates onOregonians who cannot afford it. tackle the wildfire liability issue.
for existing businesses in rural and underserved areas, and has directimpacts on the quality of living for working class people Oregonians. Explore caps on wildfire liability toelectric cooperatives.
Additionally, the wildfire liability risks facing electric cooperatives issubstantial and will be unsustainable. The state must find a solution to
this, which may need to include liability caps to electric cooperative wildfireliability. Without real solutions, electric cooperatives face the prospect of
bankruptcy, further impacting ratepayers and businesses who are locatedor are exploring locating in electric cooperative service territory.
John Schmidt 97401 Organization/Business The Satre Group, Land UsePlanning and Landscape Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth land use and permitting processes and hurdles Municipalities writing land use code thatis coordinated with ALL of their munciple code that is written better. local governments CFES and Middle housing, ONLY iflocal governments truly modifies their Since Oregon has legislated UGB thereare no states I can use as a reference. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Architectural Services departments; land use, public works,transportion, fire and parks all reviewing code with ALL departments.
code amendments that workTOGETHER.
Emily von W Gilbert 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth I'd like to challenge the idea that our local taxes are a hörande to business.I think the services they provide attract workers to our region and grow our I think that SHS, PCEF and PFA shouldbe scaled up to cover the entire state, Increased social supports for the wholestate, increasing our competitiveness. Legislature and unions! The state does not, but the Portlandregion has been invaluable in creating PCEF, SHS and PFA in MultnomahCounty. The millionaires taxes in other Yes Workforce NA NA The workforce needs social programsto be able to remain in an expensive An inmigration of younger, skilledworkers to Oregon. Increased investment in socialservices, higher taxes on the wealthy. Preschool for all! New Mexico is leading in universalchildcare coverage expansion, but the Yes Business climate The relentless doom loop narrativecoming from the PMC! Oregon is a great place. Portland islovely. You'd never know it from the A new narrative for Oregon, showing thecreativity and innovation talking place Probably a hard talk with the PMC,telling them to knock it off honestly. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You cannot attack democraticallyapproved measures and programs. NA
economy. using their existing models of revenueand program delivery. actually helpful programs that voterswant! states! economy. Childcare, housing andhealthcare are areas younger, mobile, Multnomah County program is betterbecause it supports higher wages for business-interest propaganda! every day in the communities. You do not represent Oregon betterthan the ballot does, do work on
highskilled workers look at beforesetting down roots. the workforce and runs for longer days,allowing parents to work. constructive, new ideas rather thanrehashing election results you didn't
Trevor Huddleston 98662 Organization/Business CMS Energy Advisors Private Business and NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The CPP needs to be paused. The economic damage that the CPP Reducing the tax burden on Oregon's The Governor needs to sign an Programs like the Oregon CHIPS Act In the near future, states that invest in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA agree with.NA NA
ProfessionalServices creates will counter the OregonProsperity Council's economic goals. businesses is critical to long termprosperity for all Oregonians. We executive order, pausing the CPPindefinitely. Existing and potential are really helpful for supporting existingand new industries in Oregon. their energy infrastructure will have ahuge advantage due to the rapid
Policy-wise, it makes no sense to tryand attract new high tech, energy compete against states that have aneffective tax base significantly lower industries that want to operate inOregon need to know this excessive tax increase in energy demand. Oregonneeds to invest in both its electric and
intensive businesses into the state, butat the same time be promoting the than Oregon's. is not coming back or nobody will investcapital in Oregon. natural gas infrastructure. Companiesyou are looking to retain and attract will
highest carbon tax in the world. absolutely need a reliable energysupply.
Lisa Dodson 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Low wages undermining many working families and jobs that do notinclude benefits so younger families cannot prosper in this state. Invest in Require larger companies (not smallbusinesses) to invest in local In 2-4 years, more Oregonians areregistered in post-secondary programs The governor and legislature setslegislative priorities of investing, as I have spoken with parents who gainedaccess to Preschool for All who can NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
everything families need to thrive. services/communities to receive thesupports that the state provides. that lead to sustainable incomes; moreparents are entering/staying in above, towards economically stabilizingfamilies. It means not bending to now pursue post-secondary educationor full time work and their economic
Increase taxes on the top 25% of allhouseholds for universal full-time sustainable labor forces, morepreschool children are in high-quality business and high wealth lobbies thatalways threaten they will leave or divest lives --and so family well being --wastransformed. My grandchildren were not
childcare; quality, low-cost housing;investment in tuition-free post- childcare; increase in working familiesthat are able to purchase homes. in the state. Oregon should rely on theproductivity that comes with long-term able to get a PFA slot and their familystruggled so my support for PFA is not
secondary education including well-paid building trades (do not spend on investment in working people andfamilies, not trying to win favor of the based on any personal gain. But it is acritical investment in families.
the Moda center). wealthiest.
Kevin A. Reed CCIM 97408 Both Western Oregon BuildersAssociation Private Business andProfessional CommercialReal Estate 1 - 20 people Tools for growth SDC’s Site Development Charges When those fees are required to bepaid instead of at front end they should Greater inventory for development,better lending practices, less oversight All of us Infrastructure development grants forsmall communities Low property taxes No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Taxes forcing businesses out stop NA
Bryan Adams 97701 Both CoEnergy Propane, LLC Public ServicesNA Fuel 21-100 people Business climate State taxes, fees, and over regulation be paid when occupancy permit isissuedOur organization generates Clear and realistic policies allowing for Legislature and local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Distribution approximately $10 million in annualrevenue and pays more than $250,000 a feasible and non-disruptive transitionof Oregon's energy complex. Tax and
annually in taxes and fees to operate inOregon. This growing financial burden regulatory measures that arecompetitive with other States.
is becoming increasingly difficult tosustain and is leading us to consider
relocating jobs to neighboring states.Additionally, recent executive orders
related to climate and energy policy aredriving up energy costs and contributing
to grid reliability concerns and pricevolatility. These conditions also create
uncertainty that discourages investmentin carbon-reducing technologies.
Jennifer Pereau 97203 Both Rawdacious Desserts Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Workforce Livability for the working class Roll out programs including universalchildcare and rent assistance so Rent is less than 40% of income forworking class, easy access to childcare Local government must be bold andstand up to corporate interests and SNAP, OHP, .....Preschool for All All the states/cities that have universalpreschool. NM, OK, NY, Boston, others. Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Millionaires using this moment tocomplain about taxes is a very very bad NA
people can afford to work in smallbusiness and live in city. and free transit landowners. look. Our goals should revolve aroundfunding public services and school and
reducing income disparity. Portlandwas a working class town and should
not abandon those people just becausea bunch of people with wealth moved
here.
Darrel Baumer 97132 Organization/Business NW Natural Public Business andProfessional Natural gas 1000+ people Workforce The Oregon Climate Protection Program (CPP) is harming businesses andworkers in Oregon’s natural gas industry by steadily increasing compliance The most effective solution would be torepeal the Oregon Climate Protection Success in the next 2–3 years wouldmean Oregon has policies in place that For this to happen, action is neededfrom state policymakers, regulators or Programs that support family-wagejobs, workforce development, and Minnesota’s Natural Gas Innovation Actallows utilities to pilot renewable No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services costs on utilities. As those costs rise, companies are forced to cutspending, delay projects, and reduce work that union employees depend Program (CPP). The program isincreasing costs on natural gas utilities protect family-wage energy jobs whilestill working toward reasonable the Governor . The Oregon StateLegislature would need to take the lead energy reliability are the most helpfuland should continue. Policies that natural gas, hydrogen blending, andenergy efficiency projects while
on for stable jobs. The program also appears designed to rapidly pushelectrification without fully considering the impact on existing energy and businesses while putting pressureon family-wage jobs that thousands of environmental goals. Repealing theOregon Climate Protection Program in repealing or reforming the OregonClimate Protection Program, while the support apprenticeship and workforcetraining through programs overseen by maintaining reliable service. NewHampshire and Ohio have similar
workers and the communities we serve. Policymakers should ensureclimate policies reduce emissions while also protecting family-wage jobs Oregon workers rely on. Eliminating theCPP would remove this regulatory would allow natural gas utilities andrelated businesses to invest in Oregon Department of EnvironmentalQuality would be responsible for the Oregon Bureau of Labor andIndustries help ensure workers can programs that let utilities invest in lower-carbon solutions and recover costs,
and maintaining a reliable, balanced energy system. burden and allow companies tocontinue investing in infrastructure, infrastructure, maintain reliable service,and keep stable employment for implementing any changes to theprogram. Employers, labor unions, and enter and advance in skilled trades withgood wages and benefits. Oregon’s helping customers adopt cleanerenergy without sudden price increases.
maintaining reliable energy service, andsupporting stable employment. Oregon workers across the state. It would alsocreate a more balanced energy policy industry stakeholders should also bepart of the discussion to ensure support for union apprenticeshipprograms and workforce development These models reward both utilities andcustomers for reducing emissions and
can still pursue emissions reductionsthrough balanced policies that protect that supports innovation, such asrenewable natural gas and hydrogen, policies protect jobs, maintain reliableenergy service, and support partnerships also helps maintain ahighly trained workforce that keeps could serve as examples for Oregon.States like Texas, Pennsylvania,
workers, businesses, and energyreliability. without forcing policies that harmexisting workers and businesses. responsible environmental goals. critical energy infrastructure operatingsafely and reliably. Continuing policies Oklahoma, Louisiana, and WestVirginia are frequently cited as places
that support infrastructure investmentand skilled labor will help sustain where abundant natural gas, low taxes,and supportive energy policy help keep
stable employment and strongcommunities across the state. energy costs low for consumers andindustry.
Mary King 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Raising median incomes statewide Significantly increased investment inpublic education at all levels, from early (1) Significant increase in state revenue(2) Planning and creation of free, We need the legislature to raise themoney and create the planning and We need much more funding and othersupports for 1) the Department of Early The best model we have for earlyeducation and care is Multnomah Yes Workforce NA The overly narrow focus on specificskills in greatest demand at this Investment in people more broadly. Weneed to be creating a more inclusive (1) New revenue sources from taxing atthe top where policy and the market All of these, with leadership from theGovernor and legislature. I believe that the Oregon Housing andCommunity Services has a good plan, NA Yes Business climate Over reliance on tax breaks andsubsidies for business. Investment in people’s capacities, asbusinesses falter, lose relevance and Winding up a great number of Oregon’stax expenditures and introducing The legislature. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The idea that the location decisions offirms or affluent individuals are affected Bartik%20Early%20Childhood%20Education%20and%20Local%20Economic%
childhood through college andapprenticeships universal, well-paid, multi-cultural earlychildhood education and (3) planning program structures, with theengagement of educators, employers, Leaning and Care 2) a major updateand expansion of K-12’s Quality County’s Preschool for All program,which should be extended to younger moment. economy by providingbetter education from cradle to career, a) more and have concentrated the gains of the pastseveral decades. (2) A start on that needs to be funded to go to scale,and that progress has been made make poor decisions driven by taxbreaks like the Ritz Carleton. clawbacks in any that remain, ifbusinesses fail to deliver a certain by relative tax levels is not supported bythe evidence. Businesses locate where 20Development.pdf
and creation of new apprenticeships forin demand, well-paid work for both unions and other training partners. Education Model to include mentalhealth, infrastructure, etc., and 3) A ages in an age-appropriate way. Andlet’s look to states with the best funding including critical thinking, socialsciences and the arts, as well as STEM programs in each area with viableplans for expansion. toward creating universal health care forOregon. number of family wage jobs. they can find a skilled labor force, andindividuals locate close to their
women and men. statewide plan, perhaps led by theHigher Ed Coordinating Commission and outcomes of K-12 education andpublic higher education. fields, and more apprenticeships; b)affordable housing, with publicly owned, business networks, jobs, families andamenities like good schools, green
mixed-income, permanently affordableprojects within the urban growth space and recreation opportunities, etc.
boundary; c) universal health care,including mental, dental, vision and
substance abuse programs; and d)green public transit.
