Oregon’s Prosperity Roadmap should focus on continuing to build on its specific strengths and
address known, universally agreed upon problems that hamper its future:
1. Set goals for per capita income growth (not GDP or job counts) as well as goals for
reducing the seemingly endless widening of income and wealth inequality. Make
improving wages for low- and middle-income workers an explicit target, and set goals for
reducing poverty especially among the working poor.
2. Fully implement and fully fund the statutorially adopted 40/40/20 vision for education.
Invest in education and training programs at every level, including ongoing upskilling to
address industry changes.
3. Set goals for improving quality of life indicators that attract and retain talented workers,
namely housing, healthcare, childcare, and public transportation.
4. As a condition of offering businesses tax expenditures, recipient companies must
provide paid training, utilize existing state registered apprenticeship programs where
they exist, to improve their employees’ skills and eligibility for higher level in-demand
careers in the skilled trades or their companies. These companies should also be
required to ensure that Oregonians are prioritized when hiring and get paid a family
sustaining wage and are provided with employer-paid family health insurance and any
other components agencies deem important, and that labor standards apply when
offering tax incentives.
5. While the Legislature now has a Joint Committee on Tax Expenditures, where each of
these expenditures are reviewed for effectiveness every six years on a rotating basis
(one third are reviewed each biennium), the Executive Branch ought to conduct an
independent analysis to determine whether existing or new expenditures are actually
essential and are worth the trade-off for other budget priorities that are proven to
improve quality of life for Oregonians.
6. Protect investments in public structures that promote prosperity from misguided efforts to
lower personal income taxes on those with the greatest ability to pay or to eliminate
funding dedicated to education, such as the Corporate Activity Tax.
7. Develop AI policies with a strategy that includes guardrails, requires transparency,
engages and trains workers, through on-the-job upskilling programs, to adapt to this key
technological innovation so we can improve productivity while minimizing layoffs.
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 16 of 17
