2 . TA X E S
Oregon must both respond to immediate economic pressures and prepare for its future, these policies support
businesses and workers together to build a stronger and more resilient statewide economy. The Governor
should also reject proposals that increase personal or business taxes and fees unless there is meaningful
support from Oregon’s employers of all sizes.
Modernize economic incentives, including the Research & Development tax credit to better support
innovation and help smaller businesses working to grow, add employees, and stay in Oregon.
Oregon’s incentive structure often favors capital-intensive investments while providing more limited support for
research development, talent, and operating expenditures that drive innovation and long-term competitiveness.
Oregon should continue to support and expand programs that incentivize beyond capital expenditures, as well
as modernizing the Research & Development tax credit to apply to more industries and include companies that
pay above median county wages. To encourage innovation and strengthen connections between industry and
higher education, Oregon could offer a 15% tax credit for company-led research and development and a 20%
credit for projects conducted with Oregon universities.
Update the Estate Tax to support family businesses, so they can transition successfully from one generation
to the next. Oregon should introduce targeted deductions for small businesses, following a best practice from
Minnesota, and explore raising the threshold of the exemption to $3-5 million to achieve competitiveness with
West Coast states. Minnesota defines a small business as having sales of less than $10 million annually and
allows for a $2 million deduction, in addition to the exemption limit.
Reform the Corporate Activity Tax (CAT) so that small and medium-sized businesses, particularly those
operating on thin margins, do not face extraordinary administrative burdens and costs. The current structure
increases costs at every stage of production and sales, while the standard deduction disproportionately
disadvantages smaller businesses with higher input costs. Oregon should consider increasing the filing and
taxability threshold from $1 million to $2 million to reduce burdens on small business, while also moving to
a subtractive method that allows a complete deduction of input costs while preserving the administrative
structure. Any reforms should maintain revenue neutrality and ensure continued funding for essential public
services, including K-12 education.
Reconnect the Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS) policies to the federal tax code because they
are critical to helping Oregon retain and grow emerging small businesses at a time when founders, investors,
and growing companies are increasingly being recruited to other states. Keeping support for long-term
investment in Oregon businesses can prevent the loss of jobs, capital, and future business growth to more
business-friendly states.
Develop a Holistic Proposal to Be Implemented by 2029
Council members agree that our existing tax structure, with its over-reliance on income taxes and limitations
on property taxes, is a barrier to needed investments in the education, healthcare, infrastructure, and climate
resilience programs that our communities deserve. The Council recommends that the Governor convene a
nonpartisan tax reform working group to develop a long-term reform proposal that can be implemented
by 2029 in advance of the expiration of federal State and Local Tax (SALT) provisions. The group should be
- 19 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
