FOCUS
Tools for Growth
Statewide Economic Development
Strategy & Structural Reform
Background and Problem Statement
In many states, economic development is established as a top priority and reinforced through consistent leadership
from the governor’s office. This “tone at the top” sets direction, aligns agencies and partners, and provides businesses
with a clear, consistent signal that the state is focused on supporting investment and growth.
More than 850 organizations make up Oregon’s economic development system, all broadly focused on business
growth and job creation. However, consistent collaboration around shared priorities is the exception, not the norm.
For businesses of all sizes, this fragmentation can make it difficult to identify a clear entry point, navigate available
programs, or receive coordinated support. At the same time, Business Oregon manages more than 90 legislatively
directed programs without a clear mandate or sufficient political support to lead a strong, coordinated statewide
strategy. This limits the state’s ability to respond quickly and effectively to business needs, particularly for larger or
time-sensitive investment opportunities.
Summary of Stakeholder Feedback
Oregon’s economic development functions are viewed as underperforming relative to peer states, lacking clear and
sufficiently resourced priorities, alignment, and the ability to say yes and move quickly. Stakeholders appreciate
Business Oregon’s entrepreneurship and capital access programs, alongside foundational tools to support regional
and rural economies. Others point to a lack of responsiveness, limited ability to influence peer agencies, small scale
of programs, and diffuse focus. The Semiconductor Task Force provides a template for the type of collaborative,
cross-functional approach necessary to support target industries statewide.
Shared Vision
Oregon’s economic competitiveness is restored through institutional reform, culture change, and strategic clarity.
A high-performing, aligned economic development system, anchored by a modernized economic development agency
with durable private-sector engagement, enables impactful interventions and leverages strong partnerships. Oregon
is a competitive, welcoming place for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses, and major employers to
start, grow, and invest, with a system that is responsive, easy to navigate, and capable of supporting projects at the
speed and scale required in today’s economy. Prosperity reaches households across the state.
Priority Recommendation
Following best practices in other states, Oregon should enhance the public and private sectors’ role in economic
development with the following changes:
Oregon needs a lead agency in economic development oriented toward statewide vision, accountability, and
leadership in the economy to restructure the way it delivers economic development. The state should transform
Business Oregon into the Oregon Commerce Authority, governed by a board of business and innovation
- 14 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
