April 2, 2026
To: Members of Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Council
Fr: Oregon Business & Industry
Re: Recommendations
Oregon Business & Industry exists to strengthen Oregon’s economy in order to achieve a healthy,
prosperous and competitive Oregon for the benefit of present and future generations.
This is OBI’s mission statement — words carefully chosen by business leaders from across the state to
reflect a vision of shared success and a state where employers and employees can thrive and flourish.
That “prosperity” has entered a more common political vernacular in Oregon is welcome to OBI. But we
will also be the first to say that words are nothing without action.
We want to help and are grateful for the opportunity to submit these recommendations for action to the
Governor’s Prosperity Council. In compiling them, we used the same principles of pragmatism, boldness
and data-driven analysis that drive the rest of our work. We did not shy away from ideas just because
they are hard, nor did we include things to be gratuitously provocative.
The reality is that the problems with Oregon’s business climate and economy are deep, systemic and
multifaceted. There is no silver bullet to restoring Oregon’s business climate or regaining national
competitiveness. There is no cure that will reverse trends and outcomes overnight. But there is a mix of
things – some small, some large; some quick, some long-term; some executive, some legislative – that
must be done. The work before the governor, her executive branch policymakers and legislators is
complicated and important. It is also timely. Every month, session, year or biennium wasted without
taking steps to economic recovery sets us back further, especially in a competitive landscape where
other states are aggressively figuring out how to win.
Our recommendations are organized by core principles we believe the council should consider. Behind
1
each we indicate which of the council’s strategic goals are advanced (B=Business Climate, W=Workforce,
2
T=Tools for Growth). There are many ideas from OBI’s Oregon Competitiveness Agenda not included
here. That does not mean they are less important or less impactful; we simply tried to focus on higher
level issues and pare down the list for submission. We encourage those who have not yet done so to
3
read the Agenda as well as The Oregon Scorecard , which includes myriad data underscoring the urgency
of this work.
1
https://www.oregon.gov/gov/policies/Pages/Prosperity-Council.aspx
2
https://oregonbusinessindustry.com/obi-releases-oregon-competitiveness-agenda/
3
https://oregonbusinessindustry.com/oregonscorecard/
1149 Court Street NE, Salem, OR 97301 | 503.580.1964 | obi@oregonbusinessindustry.com
