performing arts venue infrastructure and operations, and the future
of the Expo Center and Moda Center.
 The City of Portland must make economic growth the highest and
best use of Tax Increment Finance district funds aligned with the
Advance Portland economic development strategy.
 Multnomah County must expand its partnership with Oregon State
University extension and the OSU Food Innovation Center as one of
its core economic development investments. Extension matches the
county’s financial contributions 3:1, leveraging additional state and
federal dollars to ensure support for small farms, gardens, and
urban agriculture; support for the food and beverage industry sector
including the James Beard Public Market, and youth development
efforts.
Adjust the Tax Burden to be Consistent with Peer Regions
The cost of living and doing business in Portland has become uncompetitive.
Portland’s cost of living is 12% above the national average, driven largely by
the cost of housing and an uncompetitive tax burden. Portland now has the
nation’s second-highest marginal personal income tax rate at 14.7%, the
highest corporate rate at 20.9%, and business taxes have increased 81%
since 2019. Portland has lost approximately $1 billion in taxable income
annually since 2020, primarily to Clark County in SW Washington. The
continued loss of taxable income and population stagnation signals that
Portlanders are voting with their feet in response to high costs, declining
service quality, and lagging return on taxpayer investments.
With voter tolerance for new revenue at historic lows due to dissatisfaction
with poor government performance, regional and local leaders must shift away
from relying on additional taxes to fund basic services. We must urgently shift
to a competitive strategy that grows the tax base by attracting high and
middle-wage employers and families, as well as private investment. With
government revenues projected to decline precipitously for the foreseeable
future, local leaders must collaborate to lower the tax burden, prioritize
essential core services and programs that bring returns on investment, and
cut non-essential spending and reform or eliminate specialty taxes.
