P I L L A R S O F P R O S P E R IT Y
In Oregon, we know the power of coming together to make bold choices that
reflect our shared values and benefit all Oregonians. It’s how we have become
known over the years for our natural resources, innovative businesses, and
strong communities. And it’s exactly what the Prosperity Council is here to
do, and why we as its members signed up for this work.
Today, Oregon’s economic future is uncertain, and stagnant incomes, increasing pressure on public
we are in danger of missing an entire generation services, and fewer opportunities for people to build a
of growth and prosperity. We have lost sight of what better future for themselves and their children.
it takes to set up our state for success:
It’s time for urgent action to bridge
strong vision and coordination at all
our differences and fix what’s not
levels of government. As a result, the
It’s time for urgent working to put Oregon back on
state is struggling under the weight of
a path to prosperity. Incremental
overlapping and constraining policy action to bridge
change will not be enough.
decisions, keeping us at the back of
our differences Oregon’s challenges now require
the national pack on critical measures
solutions equal in scale, and our
like education, taxes, and regulation. and fix what’s not
leaders must be willing to pursue
Too often, Oregonians are paying more
working to put reforms that improve accountability,
while feeling they receive less in return.
modernize government, and ensure
Costs are rising, businesses are stalling Oregon back on a
public resources are delivering
or leaving, and too many Oregonians
path to prosperity. measurable results for Oregonians.
are struggling.
The recommendations in this report
At the same time, population growth reflect a practical, results-oriented
has slowed, employers are finding it harder to invest approach focused on proven strategies and meaningful
and expand, and many communities are seeing fewer outcomes rather than ideology, with the goal of
opportunities for workers and families. If Oregon does moving the needle on the issues that matter most to
not change course, the state risks slower job growth, Oregon’s future.
- 10 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
