Food and Beverage
Forestry and Wood Products
Technology
Outdoor Gear and Apparel
Bioscience
Other (please specify)
• All industry types operating in Oregon and that are customers of Portland General
Electric, Pacific Power, NW Natural, Cascade Natural Gas and Avista
What is your Oregon-based team’s headcount?
1 - 20 people
21-100 people
101-500 people
500-1000 people
1000+ people
I don't know
Detailed Input on Focus Areas of Your Choosing
Please share specific challenges, needs, or solutions related to a specific focus area.
You may submit as many ideas as you'd like.
Focus area you are providing input on
Business climate
Workforce
Tools for growth
What challenge would you like addressed in the Prosperity Council’s
recommendations? What is the biggest barrier or friction point in this area?
Energy Trust of Oregon is an independent nonprofit organization dedicated to helping people,
businesses and communities thrive through clean, affordable energy. We offer information,
technical studies, services and cash incentives to help more than 2.4 million customers of
Portland General Electric, Pacific Power, NW Natural, Cascade Natural Gas and Avista in
Oregon and Southwest Washington benefit from energy efficiency and renewable energy
generation. This includes homeowners, renters, property owners and small to large businesses
of all types, like commercial businesses, agricultural producers and manufacturers. We connect
these customers to qualified contractors, and we provide these contractors with ongoing training
and support.
The State of Oregon has set ambitious greenhouse gas reduction goals for utilities by 2030 and
beyond. To help utilities meet these goals as affordably as possible, Energy Trust has increased
our own targets to significantly scale up cost-effective energy efficiency and small-scale
renewable energy efforts, which will result in cost savings, improved comfort for residents and
enhanced productivity for businesses.
As outlined in the Oregon Energy Strategy issued in November 2025 and embedded in Energy
Trust’s long-term planning, the energy industry workforce will need to evolve as the energy
sector modernizes to meet Oregon’s future energy needs and policy objectives. Investing in
workforce development is critical to building a robust pipeline of qualified trades contractors,
home energy auditors, designers, architects, engineers and other professionals who are
Page 2 of 5
