 Improve Oregon’s occupational licensing requirements (currently the nation’s most onerous) to
better align with national norms. [B,W]
 Ensure balance of perspective, ideology and expertise to rulemaking so that regulations are driven
by data and evidence, not politics. [B,T]
 Establish more customer service focused operations within agencies to help regulated entities
comply and improve outcomes toward policy goals. (Ex: Department of Revenue’s Office of the
Taxpayer Advocate, Bureau of Labor and Industries’ Employer Assistance program; Defunct Ex:
Oregon OSHA’s previous “safe harbor” support approach.) [B]
 Prevent informal and nonpublic policymaking by agency staff, such as the development of internal
management directives, manuals, interpretations or other guidance that can change program
requirements without public input or sometimes even awareness. [B]
 Complete the alignment of Oregon’s disparate leave laws to reduce administrative burdens for
employers, employees and the state. [B,W]
 Streamline Cleaner Air Oregon (CAO) by establishing a more reasonable scope, creating off ramps for
facilities under certain risk thresholds (ex: Washington), standardizing facility evaluation processes
and limiting data collection requirements to contaminants with EPA-established standards; pause
current CAO Toxic Air Contaminant Review and Update rulemaking to allow for more rigorous
scientific review. [B]
 Repeal agricultural and manufacturing overtime laws, which place artificial constraints on workers’
earning capacity and employers’ ability to meet production demand fluctuations, particularly those
tied to harvesting crops or other seasonally specific demands. [B,W]
 Adjust regulatory approaches to incentivize desirable outcomes by rewarding excellence while
spotlighting needed improvements (i.e., more carrots, not just sticks), such as dynamic inspection
programs. (Prior OR ex: pollution control tax credit, green permitting program.) [B,T]
 Improve permitting for new applications, renewals and modifications through: [B]
− Better inter-agency coordination, including between local and state jurisdictions;
− Consistent, public and reasonable timelines for agency action, with fee refunds to applicants if
agency deadlines are missed;
− Ending moving-target permitting, where goalposts change during a permitting process;
− Publicly posted assessments measuring agency performance and progress toward measurable
outcomes; and,
− An external audit of and improvement recommendations for underperforming permitting
programs or those with significant permit backlogs.
Prioritize business and economic development through competitive
retention, recruitment and long-term planning efforts in critical areas.
 Create a Department of Commerce to provide an overarching, consolidated structure for related
functions currently split across multiple agencies; to oversee business support, development and
related services; and to streamline and improve collaboration, dissemination and consistency of
available information. [B,W,T]
OBI Recommendations to Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Council | Spring 2026 | Page 4 of 5
