March 19, 2026
The Honorable Tina Kotek
Governor of Oregon
254 State Capitol
900 Court Street NE
Salem, OR 97301
Re: The Math on SB 1507 and the Elimination of Oregon’s QSBS Exclusion
Dear Governor Kotek,
We understand you are currently evaluating SB 1507, which would decouple Oregon from the
federal tax system in several critical ways. In particular, we write to share our perspective on
the provision to eliminate the Qualified Small Business Stock exclusion (referred to
throughout this letter as "QSBS").
We recognize that the state is facing a serious financial situation and a challenging
economic environment, requiring difficult tradeoffs to balance both revenue and
investments in important services such as housing, education, and economic equity.
We love Oregon and want to see it thrive, and we want to improve the long-term fiscal
health of the state to ensure that we can deliver the services that we value for all
Oregonians. This level of investment requires a stable and growing tax base. We fear that SB
1507, and specifically the elimination of the QSBS exclusion, will do the opposite. The
Legislative Revenue Office (“LRO”) projects just $19.45 million in new annual revenue from
taxes on those Oregonians who qualify for QSBS this year and will no longer be able to
exclude those taxes in Oregon. It does not include the impact of any additional city, county
or metro taxes (potentially 13.9% combined at the marginal rate) and the behavioral impact
on taxpayers. We believe that calculation and its methodology are incorrect, and that
Oregon will lose far more revenue than it gains, and fast.
Ganesh Shankar built Responsive in Beaverton. Steve Marsh built Smarsh at the Pittock
Block Building next to the food cart pods in downtown Portland. Jessica Gomez
bootstrapped Rogue Valley Microdevices in Medford from credit card debt into a
world-class semiconductor foundry, becoming the first woman and minority-owned
business to receive CHIPS Act funding. All three hired Oregonians, paid Oregon taxes, and
grew companies that became pillars of this state's technology ecosystem. All three are now
gone.
Ganesh to Texas. Steve and Jessica to Florida. Jessica is now building her next
manufacturing facility in Palm Bay. The jobs, the taxes, and the economic lift of that
Letter to the Governor on SB 1507 1
