April 7, 2026
sent via email: Prosperity.Roadmap@oregon.gov, tim.knopp@oregon.gov
Governor’s Prosperity Council
Tim Knopp, Chief Prosperity Officer
Office of Governor Tina Kotek, State of Oregon
900 Court Street, Suite 254
Salem, Oregon 97301
Dear Co-Chair James, Co-Chair Robinhold, Prosperity Council members, and Mr. Knopp,
As this Council creates recommendations for Governor Kotek’s consideration to accelerate
Oregon’s economy, create good-paying jobs, and recruit and grow Oregon’s businesses, we
look forward to engaging and working together to help ensure all Oregonians have the
opportunity to thrive.
It will be essential in the work ahead to recognize that Oregon’s land use program is part of
the bedrock foundation upon which our economic vitality is built.
Oregon Land Use: At the heart of Oregon’s ‘second paycheck.’
For more than 50 years, Oregon’s land use program has been at the heart of creating the
1
world-renowned quality of life that sets our state apart. It has focused development in
cities and towns, corralled rural sprawl, and preserved working farms, forests, wild places,
and open space.
As noted in Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Roadmap, “Our exceptional quality of
life…makes [Oregon] not only a smart place to do business but also a desirable place to
live, work, and raise a family.”
For over 50 years, Oregon’s land use program has proven its durability and
flexibility, evolving to safeguard the state’s exceptional quality of life. Today, that
adaptability is being put to work to address some of the state’s most pressing
economic headwinds: the affordable housing shortage and wildfire risk.
The program is already delivering results on these issues through significant reforms,
2
such as the Oregon Housing Needs Analysis (OHNA). Finalized in December 2025,
these landmark changes to Oregon’s housing goal will provide more abundant and
affordable housing across Oregon’s communities as they are implemented this year and
1
Oregon Values and Beliefs Center. Environment and Land Use – 2023 Typology Study Summary. OregonVBC.org.
https://oregonvbc.org/environment-and-land-use/
2
Oregon Adopts Landmark Housing Rules to Increase Production, Affordability, and Choice, DLCD, December 2025
https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/ORDLCD/bulletins/3fe7815
