➢ Senate bill 1507 disconnecting from the federal tax code has been problematic both
in terms of cost classified small business shares and accelerated depreciation.
Especially for assets in Oregon, another look at accelerated depreciation might help
businesses invest in things like agricultural equipment.
➢ Elimination of the Commercial Activities Tax on green goods would go a long way in
reducing supply chain costs.
➢ While common sense land use is needed in Oregon, we urge caution to recognize
that agricultural lands are essential businesses without walls. Long-term structural
planning needs to be advanced that simultaneously protects Oregon’s natural
working lands while also providing stable growth for housing and economic
development. There is a model with an OAN led Urban-Rural Reserves passed by
the Oregon legislature over a decade ago. This bill was never intended to be “the
answer” but a model policy for the state to update its land use planning.
➢ Business Oregon needs to be retooled and given an updated mission to evaluate
Oregon’s tax code, economic development support for Oregon’s small business
community. Reform needs to be meaningful and work toward achievable targets.
The solution is not just one thing, rather many small improvements that – when
coordinated – render big results.
Building blocks for a future workforce:
Investment and connection to 4-year and community colleges and funding for CTE
➢ A core conduit to success in agriculture is the investment in our land grant
university (Oregon State University) and our community colleges. The OAN has built
bridges with these institutions to create a pipeline of a workforce, increased
research to resolve emerging issues facing the industry, and to grow awareness of
the very connection between our institutions of higher learning and business.
➢ Partnerships to build training programs and education requires a quantum leap of
support by the state.
➢ A critical building block, before higher education, is getting kids engaged in
agriculture at the High School level. It is the first step to building our workforce and
fully funded CTE programs by the state is an appropriate step.
Oregon is missing the mark on climate
➢ OAN joins OBI in its desire to replace Oregon’s unique Climate Protection Program
with a market-based program that allows for legislative oversight and linkage with
other states, invests related revenue in prioritized state policies related to GHG
29751 SW TOWN CENTER LOOP, WEST, WILSONVILLE, OR 97070
4
