LEVEL SETTING [5 mins]
Use the following overview to provide context. This does not need to be read
verbatim; please summarize in your own words.
What is the Prosperity Council?
● A statewide group representing different regions, key sectors, and
labor, convened by Governor Kotek as an outside advisory group to
recommend strategies and actions to advance Oregon’s economic prosperity
and growth.
● The council is focused on strategies in three areas: Business Climate,
Workforce, and Tools for Growth.
● The council’s charge is to develop near-, medium-, and long-term
recommendations in each of the three focus areas.
● Council meetings began in January 2026 and will conclude in June 2026,
after delivering their report of recommendations.
How is economic development being defined?
● Improving conditions for businesses to start, invest, and grow (e.g.,
regulatory predictability, access to capital, infrastructure, suitable
sites)
● Building a skilled workforce so employers can hire and workers can
access good-paying, career-connected opportunities
● Using public tools and partnerships (e.g., incentives, technical
assistance, site readiness, cluster strategies) to unlock private
investment and productivity
FOCUS AREA DISCUSSION
The Prosperity Council has organized its work around three focus areas:
Business Climate, Workforce, and Tools for Growth. Facilitators should use
their judgment to focus discussions on the topic(s) that best align with
participants’ experience and expertise. Some sessions may naturally focus on
one area, while others may span two or all three.
Facilitators should prompt the discussion of each focus area first by reading
the focus area description. Facilitators may also consider having these
descriptions available for the participants to read and refer back to during
the discussion:
● Business Climate: Oregon's business climate reflects the extent to which
the state provides a predictable and competitive environment for
employers through practical policies related to regulation, permitting,
and taxation, while also maintaining long-term revenue stability to
support public services and economic growth.
● Workforce: Oregon's workforce environment reflects how well the state's
education, training, and talent development systems align Oregonians'
3
