Oregon Forest Industries Council
Memorandum to the Oregon Prosperity Council
Date: April 2026
Re: Strengthening Oregon’s Forest Products Sector as a Foundation for Statewide
Prosperity
Executive Summary
Oregon’s forest products sector is one of the state’s oldest and most important traded
sectors and one of the few industries that simultaneously advances statewide prosperity,
rural economic stability and Oregon’s environmental objectives. Oregon’s 10 million acres
of working forestland (roughly a third of the total forestland in the state) proudly make
Oregon the nation’s top producer of lumber, plywood and engineered wood products like
mass timber - roughly three quarters of the state’s timber harvest comes from private and
tribal forestland. The forest sector also supports more than 62,000 direct jobs with a higher
than state average annual wage - a large percentage of which are in rural communities and
1
do not require a post-secondary degree.
The forest sector plays a unique role in Oregon’s economy. As a traded sector, the forest
products industry does not simply circulate money already inside the state. Close to 75
percent of the products made here are sold outside Oregon, injecting new dollars into local
communities and supporting jobs in trucking, equipment repair, professional services,
distribution and manufacturing. That traded-sector role is especially important in rural
counties, where forest-sector jobs make up six percent of all employment, compared with
two percent in metropolitan counties, and in some counties the sector accounts for more
2
than one in ten jobs.
The Oregon Prosperity Council recommendations should therefore treat the forest sector
not as a narrow special interest, but as a test case for whether Oregon is serious about
competitiveness. Oregon Business and Industry’s (OBI’s) recommendations correctly
emphasize predictable regulation, manageable cost structures and a more durable
business climate. OFIC agrees with that framework and urges the Council to apply it with
specificity to Oregon’s forest sector, where policy choices are made over decades, capital
3
is mobile and market share can be lost slowly but permanently.
1
OFRI, Oregon Forest Facts 2025-26, pp. 3, 5, 7, 14.
2
Oregon Employment Department, “Oregon’s Forest Sector Employment Totaled 62,300 in 2023”
(2024); OFRI, Oregon Forest Facts 2025-26, p. 8.
3
OBI, Recommendations to Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Council (Apr. 2, 2026).
