also, of course, has the potential to wreak havoc on the workforce. It is essential that Oregon
enacts AI policies that are stakeholder-informed, worker-centered, innovative, and
unambiguous.
In Europe, legislative bodies and companies are having these discussions in concert with
workforce organizations, but we have not seen a unified effort in the U.S. The greatest fear the
public has about AI in the workplace is that it could cause a large number of job losses and
marginalization of the workforce. With the economic fragility many U.S. workers already face
just meeting their basic living expenses, these are important concerns that need to be
addressed.
Further, across the country, 95% of workers in jobs likely to be impacted by AI are not
represented by unions, which offer the best structure for facilitating candid exchanges of
information in the workplace. Organized labor is skilled at identifying job training needs
(including developing ongoing upskilling programs) and ensuring ownership of decision-making.
Oregon must use this moment to strengthen, rather than weaken, all democratic institutions
impacted by AI, in the workplace and as well as in society, and create an economy that benefits
6
everyone.
The AFL-CIO has adopted a set of principles for fair, safe, responsible, and worker-centered AI
that could provide a good starting point for developing policies beneficial to workers and
businesses.
In summary, Oregon needs to develop AI policies that have guardrails and baked-in
transparency to engage and train workers. We can augment productivity and minimize layoffs by
utilizing AI on-the-job upskilling programs.
Balancing a Healthy Business Climate with a Healthy Tax Infrastructure
There have been many references during Council meetings of a “need” to reduce the income
tax on high-income Portlanders to attract CEOs and high paid employees. Similarly, the
Corporate Activity Tax (CAT), which is dedicated to funding education, is disliked by businesses
and a number of Council members have recommended it should be repealed.
There is no compelling evidence that Portland’s supplemental income taxes on the most affluent
or the CAT undermine prosperity or that reducing those taxes will benefit the state. The CAT
was promoted by Nike and is designed for the traded sector as out-of-state sales are not
included in commercial activities subject to the tax. While there were 519,579 tax returns with
business income filed in tax year 2022, there were only 26,569 CAT returns filed that year
7
(about five percent).
6
Christy Hoffman, UNI Global Union General Secretary, interview by Molly Kinder, July 16, 2025,
Brookings Metro Blueprint, “Workers must have a seat at the AI bargaining table”
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/molly-kinder-and-christy-hoffman-discuss-how-workers-can-shape-the-
use-of-generative-ai-in-the-workplace/
7
Oregon Public Finance, Basic Facts 2026, Legislative Revenue Office, Report #1-26, February 3, 2026
https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/lro/Documents/Basic%20Facts%202026.pdf
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 11 of 17
