same, and 4% say it’s faster. Asked to explain in their own words why growth has been slower, 44% of voters
mention either high taxes (23%) or excessive regulations (21%). No other reasons are mentioned as often.
Consider:
• Slide 17: “Most voters believe Oregon’s economic growth rate is slower than the national average. They
prefer it to be faster.” (showing assessment of growth rate v. preference for growth rate)
• Slide 18: “More than 4 in 10 voters point to high taxes and excessive regulations as the main reasons for
the state’s slow economic growth. Nearly 1 in 5 blame Democratic leaders.” (showing open-ended
explanations)
TAXES AND REGULATIONS
Voters think businesses in Oregon are over-taxed and over-regulated. 56% of voters think taxes on
businesses in Oregon are too high. 16% say they are about right. Only 9% think they are too low. Republicans
(87%) are more likely than Democrats (28%) to think business taxes are too high, with NAV/Other voters (58%)
more likely to agree with Republicans.
When it comes to issues like the environment, health, and workplace, 46% of voters think businesses are over-
regulated, compared to 27% who think businesses are regulated about right, and only 15% who think they are
under-regulated. Republicans (76%) and NAV/Other voters (49%) are more likely than Democrats (21%) to
share the view that businesses are over-regulated.
93% of voters believe businesses simply pass along tax and regulatory costs to consumers in the form of
higher prices. 76% believe Oregon should pause any new regulations until businesses have time to meet new
requirements and to learn whether they are working—a belief that has remained consistent since 2021.
Consider:
• Slide 19: “Voters think business taxes in Oregon are too high. Views are partisan, with a majority of
NAV/Other voters agreeing with Republicans that taxes are too high.” (showing overall view and partisan
view)
• Slide 20: “A plurality of voters think businesses are over-regulated on issues related to the environment,
health, and workplace. Here too a similar pattern is evident.” (showing overall view and partisan view)
• Slide 21: “Nearly all voters believe businesses pass the cost of taxes and regulations onto consumers.”
(showing this belief)
• Slide 22: “Voter preference for pausing new regulations until they are proven effective has remained
consistent since 2021.” (showing preference over time)
A PATH FORWARD
Voters prefer a pro-growth strategy to address pending state budget deficits. When provided with a set
of options to address Oregon’s budget deficit, 52% prefer reducing regulations and creating incentives for
economic growth to increase tax revenue through more jobs and higher wages. 27% prefer reducing spending
to match available revenue. 12% prefer raising taxes to ensure programs and services remain fully funded.
Regardless of party affiliation, voters prefer a pro-growth strategy to address deficits. 56% of NAV/Other voters,
53% of Republicans, and 46% of Democrats think this approach should be the priority for state lawmakers.
4 | DHM Research | OBI Legislative Survey | January 2026
