7. Support active management on federal forests and maintain the
manufacturing base needed to perform that work.
The Council should view federal forest restoration and Oregon manufacturing capacity as
interdependent. Without mills and associated infrastructure, large-scale restoration is
more expensive and less feasible.
Support:
• Federal harvest in Oregon fell sharply in the late 1980s and early 1990s with
changes in federal forest management, and because of that federal policy,
many rural communities lost both jobs and associated public revenues.
Local jobs and revenues are not all that was lost because of this misguided
policy, however. Oregon State University notes that passive management of
federal forestland has contributed to declining forest health and decreased
fire resiliency for many federal lands, especially in the drier forests east of the
27
Cascades.
• If policymakers intend on addressing the wildfire crisis in the West with fuels
reduction and prescribed fire, it cannot be done without local loggers,
truckers, contractors and sawmills to remove and process wood fiber. When
manufacturing capacity erodes because supply is unreliable or policy risk is
too high, the state loses the very industrial infrastructure needed to make
28
federal forest restoration financially and logistically feasible.
8. Require carbon policy to evaluate substitution effects, leakage and
disturbance risk.
Any recommendation on climate or carbon should account for the full lifecycle benefits of
wood products and the risk of offshoring production to other states or countries. Oregon
should not pursue carbon maximalism that weakens one of its most sustainable natural-
resource sectors while increasing dependence on more emissions-intensive substitutes.
Support:
• Working forests and a robust forest products industry are key to any
domestic or international climate change mitigation strategy.
• Forests are a natural climate solution, as actively growing forests pull carbon
dioxide from the atmosphere and store carbon in woody vegetation. By
sustainably managing forests, these benefits can be enhanced above and
beyond the natural forest carbon cycle. Carbon sequestered by harvested
trees from working forests is stored in wood products and used as a carbon-
neutral energy source. Not only are primary wood products, wood
27
OFRI, “Oregon’s forest economy.”
28
OFRI, “Oregon’s forest economy.”
8
