wildlife, store and slow down floodwaters, filter out pollutants, and buffer the impacts of
ii
fire and climate change.
Failing to adequately protect Oregon’s natural resources has real consequences for the
state’s economy, particularly under a changing climate. More extreme weather, from
increased flooding to drought, is projected to impact Oregon communities statewide.
Changes in precipitation that increase drought risk and decrease snowpack will have
significant impacts to irrigated agriculture and other industries that rely upon sustainable
supplies of clean water. The Oregon Climate Change Research Institute identifies
economic losses from smoke impacts to businesses and tourism, reduced timber prices
from wildfire exposure, and adverse public health outcomes related to increased wildfire
iii
smoke as projected effects of climate change.
Many Oregonians recognize and value the importance of protecting the state’s natural
resources. A 2023 Oregon Values and Beliefs survey found that 53% of Oregonians
believe that maintaining a quality environment attracts people and companies to Oregon.
The same survey also found that a majority of Oregonians believe that stronger
iv
environmental laws and regulations are worth the cost (63%). The Prosperity Council
must include the protection of Oregon’s natural resources as foundational to the health of
Oregon’s economy.
2. Tourism and outdoor recreation are important economic drivers that depend upon
a healthy environment.
Outdoor recreation in Oregon supported $16 billion in spending that supported 192,000
v
full or part-time jobs in 2022. As stated in a 2024 analysis by Earth Economics, “outdoor
recreation is an important part of Oregon’s identity” and a majority (95%) of Oregonians
vi
participate in outdoor recreation. Oregon’s rivers, forests, mountains, and coastlines are
vii
also a major driver of visitors to the state.
Fishing, hunting, and wildlife viewing contributed $1.2 billion in spending by Oregonians
and visitors in 2019 and supported 11,000 jobs. These activities, which rely upon a
healthy environment that is protected and restored, generated $385 million in labor
viii
income. According to Travel Oregon, the Oregon Coast tourism economy is the second
largest in the state. In 2018 alone, the Oregon Coast captured 17% ($2.053 billion) of
ix
total statewide spending and 59% (17 million) of all visitors to Oregon (29.1 million).
The coastal Oregon counties of Lincoln, Lane, and Coos have the highest percent of the
x
labor force employed by spending in outdoor recreation.
3. Restoration investments are investments in local communities.
The labor, materials, and private-sector contracts that result from financial investments in
habitat restoration projects is often referred to as the “restoration economy” and offers
important benefits to Oregon communities. Increasing investments in these types of
projects can particularly benefit rural communities in Oregon. Communities that have
traditionally relied upon natural resource extraction are finding new strategies to use
PO Box 10026, Portland, Oregon 97296 | 503.222.1804 | wildsalmoncenter.org
