Angela Zehava 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Portland State University is one of the primary factories for workers in thePortland area, and it is ridiculously underfunded (especially compared to 1. Wealthy people in the U.S. haveexperienced a steady increase in A robust, fully funded educationalsystem in Oregon, from Pre-K to Government: There should be a studyfunded and carried out to identify Preschool for All and it's tax PortlandState University PCC joint programs NA Yes Tools for growth NA 1. People are getting crushed under theweight of high housing costs. You know 1. We need to pass laws that prohibitinvestor groups from buying housing. NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prosperity starts with individual people.Too often, councils like this view people NA
similarly situated urban colleges). PSU has been training front line workersin education and health care on the narrowest shoestring budget for a wealth, and the gap between rich andpoor has never been greater. We University offering the full spectrum ofchoices. There should be tracks taxation loopholes and close them. Weshould identify best practices for allowing diploma/Associates degreeconcurrently Free PCC education for this already, but I'm not sure that a"Prosperity Council" talking to CEOs We need to prohibit apartment ownersfrom leaving apartments vacant while as things, fungible widgets. That's whyyour plans so often do not work.
generation. Now, it is on the verge of collapse.to increase school readiness, school performance, and graduation rates Preschool for All promises need to study where those gaps intaxation exist and require the rich to pay starting in high school to educateparticular classes of workers who are workforce development nationally, andinternationally and implement those. kids who otherwise couldn't afford it fully appreciate what this does toOregon's economy: --Money is waiting for their price. We need publiclyfunded non-profit housing. We need Another barrier to success is theunwillingness to bring all stakeholders
(there are studies to support these assertions), but some wealthy peoplewould rather spend much more money fighting it than funding it. This is their fair share. Closing loopholesaround passive income, for instance. needed locally and in statewideindustries. We should actually employ constantly flowing out of Oregon to WallStreet --People cannot spend money rent control. We need to investigatehousing best practices because what to the table. This Council is a perfectexample--it is stacked with one kind of
selfish and short sighted.wealthy people who are laser focused on avoiding taxation and paying their Short sighted and selfish behavior by some Also, it is ridiculous that workersworking for large corporations doing all the Biologists who are graduatingfrom college and cannot find beyond their necessities --Stress andit's toll on mental health, crime, and we are doing isn't working.need a Bank of Oregon. 3. We need to 2. We person with one particular perspective. Ialready know it will likely be a waste of
fair share, and also some politicians who are laser focused on the supportof wealthy people so they can gain higher office are perennial drags on our business in this state require foodstamps. The Oregon taxpayer should employment in their fields becausewealthy people do not value drug use and so forth --Theincreasingly common loss of housing create Build to Suit areas within UGBs. time and money, but why not spend 30minutes calling into that void. Hopefully
development as cities, and as a state, overall. not be subsidizing Walmart or Amazon,who are making record profits and environmental science, for example. Wewould be identifying and fully utilizing due to rent hikes or minor problems likea job change because everyone is living someone there will actually read this.
avoiding taxes. Our governor shouldstop slavishly serving CEOs and the education, talents and skills of allOregonians. paycheck to paycheck increases ratesof homelessness --We are told by the
instead serve the people of Oregon.We need to fully fund education at all 2. houseless that homelessness comesfirst, drug addiction second ("because
levels to maximize opportunity for allOregonians. There will be numerous drugs are everywhere on the street").Housing insecurity is a a tent to drug
side effects of this strategy in terms ofincreased mental health (both as a addiction pipeline, with disastrouseffects. --We, the Oregon taxpayer, are
result of the met demand for therapists--now 30% met on the West Coast--and paying to house the evicted houseless.This money, too, is going straight out of
as a result of people finding meaningfulemployment and a living wage), and Oregon to Wall Street investor groups.2. Money is also getting sucked out of
prosperity.wage, studies have also shown that 3. Speaking of a living Oregon through our banking practices.We need a Bank of Oregon to keep our
increasing the minimum wage andwages on the low end generally, money circulating locally. This isevidence based, but unpopular with the
whether through mandated increasesor creating better jobs, increase the Epstein Class.challenges--we need to create room for 3. We have land use
Josh Channell 97031 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Oregon and Portland’s growing reputation as a place where projects can’t prosperity, generally, in a city and state.Agencies need a clear decision maker4. Increasingly, high school is Actually building a transportation project Legislation and a new state supported NA Restrictions on permit obligations that No NA NA corporate campuses, while alsoprotecting the urban growth boundariesNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
progress. This is largely due to agency disagreement, lack of clearleadership and decision making authority, and attempts to exact for a given project who is bothresponsible for and accountable to backed by multiple agencies workingtogether to secure funding and deliver model for organizational leadership atagencies can be imposed on state projects ordesignated projects of regional or
unreasonable inclusions and concessions from other public agencies,regardless of ultimate taxpayer burden. advance the project and has theauthority to minimize interagency and public benefit. special benefit. NEPA assignmentapplied for by ODOT to streamline
interdepartmental roadblocks. decision making so projects can qualifyfor federal funding faster. Greater use
of pilot project and programs to testconcepts.
Jonathan Hays 97212 Organization/Business Silver Pine Software Private Technology NA 21-100 people Business climate Small business taxes are way too high with so little services provided. Either reduce taxes or apply them in away that will help make Portland Fast and cheap city widewifi/broadband, clean & safe mass We need competent executors of thecity and state programs. We need The most helpful is easily the familyleave program. Besides that, honestly, Vacancy taxes. This one is such a no-brainer. I don't understand why this isn't Yes Workforce NA We are neither attracting nor locallytraining a high tech (particularly AI and NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I've had my small business in Portlandfor 14 years now. We are a small NA
noticeably more attractive to smallbusinesses. transit with more convenient routes,safe and clean public spaces to meet simplified and unified tax codes andstructures. We need a government with most other programs are eitherirrelevant or downright harmful to our talked about more. Software development) workforce.Additionally, the high cost of housing software development firm with aremote model. Despite having 30+
and work, friendlier taxes for smallbusinesses that fall into the profitable a force of will to get things done and nottry to make everyone happy. business. couple with high taxes on wage earnersin the 100k-200k range makes it very people on our team, only 4 choose tolive in Portland. That's a major problem.
but not "rich" category. difficult to recruit talent.
Erin Fairchild 97220 Both Collective Action Consultingand Journal As Altar Public Business andProfessional alsoecommerce 1 - 20 people Tools for growth I would like the council to recognize and then act from the truth that our statethrives when our communities thrive; not just when the wealthy are set up to Stop trying to damage Preschool for Allbefore it gets the chance to really thrive! A fully implemented program that isexpanding across the state, without The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid Preschool for All is incredibly importantfor the success of local businesses NYC - preschool for all and taxing thewealthiest. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prioritizing the most marginalized andvulnerable Oregonians will lead to a NA
Services get wealthier. There have been many attempts to weaken preschool for allas we voted on it, and I think that is a huge barrier. As a business owner, I constant threats from wealthyoregonians. family wages, and the best tools forgrowth are education and AND families; that's why we voted yes.There have been so many attacks on thriving state. Invest in universal pre-k, k-12 education, and affordable housing.
want preschool for all! Universal free pre-K is gaining momentumnationwide. The program we already have here is a national model for how apprenticeships and affordablehousing. Work on these. this program, and as a businessowner, I want to make it clear that And please please correct the kicker.The wealthiest get the most back while
it could and should be done. Expanding it while keeping the quality high willhelp our region remain competitive when it comes to attracting and Preschool for All is good forbusinesses and inhibiting it's success the rest of us get very little whileschools lose massive budget amounts.
retaining workers and their young families. would be a huge mistake. Universal,free, high-quality preschool is an Stop centering the already resourced.
economic win — it delivers a 3-to-1return on investment and raises family
incomes by about 22% on average.Families with higher income mean my
businesses are more likely to thrive!
Julie Edwards 97080 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Tuna Kotex.horrible governor. She has shown herself to be a thief, a liar and all around Get rid of Kotex, she's just going to stealthe money and dump it into illegals. Getting rid of Kotex. Vote her out. None. The whole stte needs to beaudited. Stop looking external and begin internalwith audits, and removal of Kotex. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA GET RID OF KOTEX. NA
Donna Nesbitt 97223 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Quit giving tax incentives to companies that cause our rates to go up. Quitallowing data centers that use up our water and electricity. You are causing Stop pushing taxes on residents thatcant afford their bills now, and dont add A new governor who ACTUALLY CARESabout us. Who asks for reports every 3 The buck stops with Tax us Tina as sheis now being called aka Let the gangs Feed back programs like this. We feelno one has listened the last two In some states residence people whohave lived in Oregon for over 20 years Yes NA Taxes Every time you need money, you raisetaxes on us. We cant afford more Our governor needs to meet in EVERYeastern county and ACTUALLY LISTEN. More farms bring saved, morecooperation with ICE for the BAD Legislature NEEDS TO LISTEN ANDACT. DEQ emissions but diesel needs to beadded. If the state would be aggressive Idaho...aggressive license renewalpractices, cooperation with ICE on No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
residents to flee the state due to the frequent hikes in rates. Quit pushingyour agendas to raise fees while investing in waterfalls, the Meta center, etc more companies that drain resourceswithout paying their fair share. You months on WHERE funds alloted havegone and checks to see if any fraud is have free reign Kotek. She needs toclean up her act if she wants our votes administrations. and military veterans. Get first chance atlow income housing. As it is now, taxes..we are taxed out!! We dont live ingovt housing and have a chauffeur and Electric farm equipment is tooexpensive, even western Oregon farms immigrants who are reoffending andruining lives for Oregonians. More with people who dont get new tags,we'd have lots of ODOT $$. There are sleeper cells, immigrants who commitrapes, fraud, murder, etc.
if you cant fund ODOT. FIX YOUR BUDGET before spending frivolously. have lost sight of what normal peoplelive like. You live high on the hog while happening. Who allows ICE to takerapists, gang members, and murderers in November. This whole tax fiasco hasangered her constituency. immigrants get priority. The apartmentbehind us is low income and when I security detail. We NEED ICE to get thegangs, murderers, sleeper cells and will go belly up. Guns are needed inrural areas for predator animals and OVER 65 Residents and veterans inlow income instead of immigrants given over 20 out of date plates within 5blocks of most homes. Start stopping
most of us are just getting by, then youhit us with high fees on gas and vehicle off the streets while protecting nonoffenders. In other words, an unbiased called to see if I could put a friend onthe waiting list who has lived in Oregon, rapists out. We dont have the luxuryTina has of protection. We dont feel security. Our governor lives in a bubbleshe needs to break. priority. them in traffic.
licenses so we can get to our meagerjobs. Its shameful. and concerned about his/her residents. all her life. And lost her home becauseshe's living on SS and they doubled her safe in Oregon. She keeps talkingabout gun control, our only protection.
rent, and I was told immigrants, getpriority because it's a catholic low Eastern Oregon also has NO SAY inwhat is done.
income. They wouldn't even put her ontheir list. That's an abomination!! Our tax
dollars are not serving those who havebeen loyal taxpaying residents all their
lives!!
Leslie Shaw 97007 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Ignorance on gun laws . Those in power unwilling to learn about them. More education about guns . I went to a bigger store front . All government agencies. Beaverton business license for womenowned businesses. More could do this . NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please learn about guns. Criminals donot follow any new laws. NA
Michelle Nicola 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Currently what I pay in childcare exceeds my mortgage. This isn’tsustainable on an individual level and on a community level it is not good Keep and increase funding forPreschool for All. Make it truly for all. Preschool truly for all Preschoolteachers fairly compensated Making Our legislators have to protect what thepeople have fought hard to put into Preschool for All Universal childcare/preschool for all(New York) No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA None at this time NA
either. As a teacher, I see the difference a solid preschool educationmakes, and when students don’t get one, it starts the equity gap at a very moves to put in place universalchildcare (like in New York) place. They need to offer the tools,training and funding so that there are
young age. Every child should have equal opportunity to a solid, joyfuleducation, starting in preschool. Universal, free, high-quality preschool is enough preschool spots for all, and sothat teachers are fairly compensated.
an economic silver bullet — it delivers a 3-to-1 return on investment andraises family incomes by about 22% on average.
Robb Evans 97402 Both Converted Kitchen Kitchenremodeling/General Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Permitting, restrictions on development, barriers to utilize housinginitiatives. Simplify and expedite the process todevelop housing projects. Explore Restrictions to development removed toshrink the permitting process to less Local and state governments to simplifypermitting, state BOLI laws changed for Governor's focus on businessdevelopment. NA Yes Business climate NA Emphasis needs to be placed oneducating the public that without Initiate business-friendly policy coupledwith effective communication to the Companies relocating to Oregon orremaining here, with the support of the State and local government need tocollaborate to remove the barrier to NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Without the buy-in of the general public,progress will be hard to achieve. If they NA
Contractor Services changes to prevailing wagerequirements, especially for projects than a year and labor costsmanageable to make projects pencil prevailing wage requirements. Marketrate wages are a lot better than no development of the business climate,the social and environmental projects general public that industry funds ourstate. general population. support industry. do not see a correlation of businessdevelopment to the policies they
where tax incentives are offered asopposed to public funding being used. out. wages (because prevailing wageprevents profitability.) that we would like to see implementedcannot be funded. support, it won't happen.
Mary Jarvis 97520 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Yes Tools for growth Natural gas We are destroying our means ofproducing energy by dismantling coal Rebuild dams, open coal plants, addmore natural gas, and allow wood More energy production in Oregonrather than importing from other states. Legislature. NA More coal use for energy production.Scrubbers make coal burning quite Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
plants and making natural gas pipelinepermits difficult to obtain. We have burning for heat and energy. A good side effect of more dams is thestoring of rain and snowfall instead of clean. Another inexpensive solution toenergy production is natural gas which
destroyed dams which produce cleanenergy. letting it all run to the ocean. We needwater for fire fighting and irrigation as is plentiful. Another area is forestry. Ourcurrent policy permits the harvesting of
well as energy production. 25% of new growth per year, but thatmeans 75% of new timber adds fuel to
wildfires.
Eric Turner 97386 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Energy is a major existing and increasing problem in Oregon. With zerorefineries, no LNG ports, no clean coal power plants and reduced hydro I would suggest we increase hydro-electric production (Western Oregon), Besides the obvious inflow of peopledue to the increase in jobs, Oregon Local and State Government. Power togrow in these fields is suppressed by Not many Nevada has great power generationand tax incentives. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Oregon I grew up in is on lifesupport. Reedsport, Coquille, Coos NA
production, Oregon is in trouble. invest in geothermal energy (CentralOregon) and clean coal (Eastern could sell excess power to Californiaand cover budget shortfalls. regulation. Bay, Springfield etc used to havethriving jobs in wood production, but are
Oregon) now husks of what they used to be.Tourism is great, but you can't rely on it
to maintain family-wage jobs.
Lawson D'Ambrosio 97213 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Inaccessible and unaffordable preschool options for working families.Cost of living crisis and the ultra-wealthy not paying their fair share. Multi- Fortunately, Multnomah county has anexcellent Preschool for All program that Preschool for All in Mult Co is goinggreat at about this same point in it's Tina Kotek could partner closely withMultnomah County and the community Preschool for All in MultCo. Wealth tax inWA State. Free public transit in Corvallis. New Mexico also just rolled outuniversal PreK. Other programs like No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Involve more community and laborgroups- they're who create the NA
modal transport with a robust public transport backbone. has exceeded expectations and wouldbe an easy program to roll out state implementation.making sure the top 1% and top 10% of A wealth tax that is groups that advocated for andimplemented Preschool for All. I'm Washington's 'Millionaire tax' that justpassed are other great avenues to economic prosperity we all enjoy.
wide. It provides for well paying jobsand small business opportunities in wealth holders, not just incomeearners, in the state are paying their fair sure the WA legislature would be happyto share their insights and lessons ensure the well-off either pay their fairshare in the state, or make it known
childcare, while also providing freechildcare for any family that needs it, share.light rail, or street car anywhere in the Being able to hop on a bus, learned in passing the wealth tax theyjust passed. Corvallis has an that, if they dont intend to contribute,they have no welcome home in our
freeing working class families from theoutrageously high costs of childcare. state and not have to worry about fares. excellent free transit program.universal PreK and state-wide free Both wonderful state.
Much more progressive wealth taxesthat not simply aim to, but outright public transit could be funded by awealth tax. A program like PCEF
demand and enforce the ultra-wealthypay their fair share. It would be deployed state wide would be anexcellent boost as well.
incredible to see a wealth tax like theone WA state just passed here in OR.
Free public transit state-wide would befantastic. I grew up in Corvallis and
always enjoyed the ease of use of thefree, reliable, consistent public transit in
the city.
Colleen Cash 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth I would like to have the barrier of fear of losing Preschool for All removed.As a teacher and parent the stability of this program is key for growth Stop threatening the program. Yes, wecan examine how to improve it. A universal preschool for all rollout withaccess for all students. Higher math Governor Koteck needs to act to protectthe program. Preschool for All, strong local libraries,strong local parks and rec, PE 150 min Sales tax to fund education No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
because it ensures kids are ready to succeed in schools and also helpsparents keep working with young kids. and reading scores in third gradebecause students are ready for school. per week for K-5 students.
SHIRLEY Jones 97603 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate High taxes and state demanded fees destroy the business environment ofour state Reduce all taxes, terminate regulationsthat hinder business growth and Clean voter rolls, in person one dayvoting and tabulation, increased The state government is the GREATESTHINDERANCE to growth and prosperity As few as possible would improveEVERYTHING IN Oregon I really doubt the current governmentwould consider any programs or Yes Workforce Quality workforce educationand training programs The huge barrier to success in Oregonis the excessive unnecessary spending You won't like it... FIRE THE CURRENTLOOSERS AND START OVER 60 Without an 180° turnaround ingovernment, this state won't be here in Government control at every level fromgovernor to dog catchers. Parks and recreation Elimination of property taxes,Reductions in all farm management Yes Tools for growth Too many regulations and taxes/fees.terminate them reduce spending Cut budgets Lower taxes, better living conditions,higher level of governmental Oh please, why Should I have to tellyou? Not many Look to Florida, They are gainingeveryone your policies are running out. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Clean up the voter rolls and reinstateone day at the polls and tallying. NA
prosperity for citizens of Oregon business growth and jobs, in the state. policies that are successful in otherstates or they would have initiated them focused on trades and skillsareas. and Northwest focus onwould create real income producing anything that YEARS AGO. 2 years. controls, eliminate water restrictions oneverything. STOP WASTING TAXPAYER responsiveness. Immediately. Otherwise, there will besuch a turnout like you can't imagine.
here already jobs and futures for Oregonians beforeall income earner and producers leave MONEY ON UNLAWFULL FOREIGNBORN INVADERS. ELIMINATE All
the state to states that supportbusiness growth and personal programs that DO NOT SHOWMEASURABLE SUCCESS WITHIN 1
prosperity in citizens pockets. YEAR OF INCEPTION. STOP DMVSALES OF OREGON DMV
INFORMATION TO 3RD PARTIES.
Lorri Romie 97060 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate 35 year Oregonian transplant from Texas. Oregon needs to take note howto develop business friendly practices & policies to address tax deficits. Stop hiding taxes in everything fromutility costs to gasoline. Businesses Stop the hidden taxing of Oregoniansand learn from other states how to Legislative & local governments canmake this happen. Permits for Not much but the film making incentiveprogram was a clean business to No drugs no homeless no hidden feeson Natural Gas & Electricity to feed Yes Workforce Natural Gas fees Natural gas fees, lack of incentives andsubsidies will kill what little businesses Go back to 2015 natural gas policiesuntil the electric / solar / alternative fuels Oregonians freed from poorgovernance of the last 5 years Legislative bodies at state & local level Outdoor school NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and families cannot be sustainable inthe current policy environment attract & sustain small businesses ANYTHING take too long. If businessesare successful, citizens are successful attract film production- special projects for Climate Crisis-slow that process we currently have. Families alreadycrushed by high electricity are ready for the transition
David Purucker 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The biggest barrier to "workforce" development—meaning, issues that We should be working to make the Focusing on childcare, success would and FEED the tax coffersInvesting in childcare as a universal, I support all state programs and New York state and New York City have No Business climate NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I would simply say that "prosperity" NA
affect the vast majority of Oregonians, who are workers—is the structuralimbalance of power between working people and capital owners. This is labor market less competitive, notmore. A competitive labor market is one look like the full implementation of theexisting Preschool for All program, and free right for all Oregonians will requirethe coordinated efforts of all who share policies that empower ordinary people,giving them real freedom to exercise some of the most ambitious socialwelfare systems in the country, even if under capitalism is always prosperityfor the few. Whatever libertarian fantasy
reflected in the framing of this survey, which focuses on the "needs ofemployers," not of working people, and suggests that workers' needs where there are more workers per job,forcing workers to bid against each expansion of it to include older andyounger children and more areas of the an interest in freeing working peoplefrom the despotism of the market. their capacities and flourish as humanbeings. That includes Preschool for All, they are still inadequate. We shouldalso be looking abroad to study the you imagine as your utopia—maybe it'sTexas, or Dubai, or El Salvador—is
should be "adapted" to suit employers' interests, for example via a"competitive labor market." other and accept less from employers.The goal of a decent society should be state. For inspiration, policymakerscould look to New York, where state and Working people themselves need toact, to defend and expand reforms but also laws that protect renters,workers on the job, and those policies of other countries. For example,the social housing system in Vienna, always built upon a vast sea of povertyand oppression. A favorable "business
to push back on the domination of themarket and create real freedom for all city government are currently investingin pre-K for children aged 3 and 2, both against the resistance of the rich. experiencing homelessness, amongothers. Austria is an inspiring example ofresistance against the tyranny of private climate" has always meant, for workers,a favorable climate for capitalists to take
people, not just for the few that ownproductive resources. Reforms to the in New York City and across the state.Oregon should strive to be a leader in housing developers:https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/23/m more and give back less, while workersrun faster just to stay in the same place.
labor market that strengthen the realfreedom of Oregonians might include: the comprehensiveness of our socialpolicy system. Preschool for All is a agazine/vienna-social-housing.html. Itshould be studied and implemented today. Our society has the wealth toBut we could have prosperity for all,
(a) reducing the workweek to accountfor improvements in social productivity, great foundation to build upon. here in Oregon. ensure that no one goes hungry, that noone sleeps outside, that no one suffers
e.g. a 32-hour workweek; (b) a publicjob guarantee for all people who want the indignities of unemployment oroverwork. We may still have market
one; and (c) decommodification ofessential goods and services like mechanisms in the economy, and wewould value increases in productivity.
childcare.investing in programs like Portland's On (c), the state should be But the fruits of that productivity wouldflow to all, not the few. I know that
Preschool for All, and expanding itacross the state. The costs of most of the Prosperity Council consistsof business leaders. But even you have
expanding preschool and reforming thelabor market would be borne by those an interest in knowing your enemy! Fora good introduction to market socialist
who currently hoard wealth andopportunities in our state, i.e. the ideas, start here:https://jacobin.com/2023/08/market-
capitalist class. socialism-workplace-democracy-self-management-efficiency-economics.
Sincerely, David
Daniel Fiske 97630 Both NA Private Food andBeverage OutdoorHospitality 1 - 20 people Business climate Regulation Deregulation NA State government particularly DEQ andstate zoning laws specifically winter NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Carolyn Gallagher 97317 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA homeless stop homeless camps! Garbage No Camps bedding zoneslocal goverment that encourage this to NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
polution, danger drugs I could go onand on. continue.
Cindy Meier 97401 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Lowering taxes and regulations. Climate change should NOT be our mainfocus. Remove burdensome fee taxes andpenalties for landlords to help reduce Less government oversight andspending which will reduce costs for all. Hopefully this state will not continue tohave a Super Majority party. As it is NA NA Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
costs for tenants. Republicans cannot even get a hearingon their ideas.
Tabatha Davis 97419 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Over taxation of businesses. No incentive to open or remain in Oregon.Prohibitive restrictions on land use, planning etc. Reduce tax burden on businesses,especially those in early growth phases Noticeable increase in new businessstarts and relocations to Oregon. 25- State Legislature: Lead on tax reform,regulatory simplification and incentive Business programs that supporteconomic development, grants and Streamlined, centralized permittingsystems similar to those used in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Change isn't just a suggestion but isimperative. NA
through targeted tax relief. Streamlineland use and permitting processes to 40% faster timelines for permitting,Higher business retention rates. growth structures. Local Governments tostreamline permitting, align zoning financing. Strategic investmentPrograms incentivizing businesses. Arizona and Texas. Lower and morecompetitive tax structures that attract
reduce time, cost and uncertainty andcreate a faster more predictable path to in local job creation and payrollexpansion. Improved perception of policies and reduce inconsistenciesacross jurisdictions. State agencies : and retain business. Faster turn aroundtimelines with accountability metrics for
development. Incentivize retention andrelocation through tax credits, grants, Oregon as a business friendly statereflected in rankings and investor Modernize processes, improvecommunications and implement faster approvals and development. StrongConcierge style business support
fee waivers tied to job creation and longterm investment. Create centralized interest. Stronger public-privatecollaboration with businesses feeling approval systems. EconomicDevelopment Organizations and where companies have a single point tonavigate regulations. Proactive land
resources for business navigation. heard and supported rather thanhindered. chambers : Advocate for businessneeds and serve as a bridge between readiness programs that prepare sitesin advance for development
public and private sectors. Employersand business leaders: provide real time
feedback, participate in advisorycouncils and invest in local workforce.
Education and workforce: align trainingprograms with actual employer needs
to support sustainable business growth.
Gary Adkison 97537 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA TAXES NO TAXES A REPUBLICAN AS GOVERNOR legislature EDUCATION! NOTINDOCTRINATION, NOT TOO MANY. SAME DAY IN PERSON VOYING! No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA DO NOT TAX FUEL OR SALES!LOWER PROPERTY TAXES. NA
Christine Bates 97720 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth CO2 is the food for plants and animals may produce methane, but it is verylow compared to other natural disasters (e.g. a volcano). Stop demonizing diesel fuel and startmaking it more affordable. Increase in food production. The state of Oregon has to get off thefalse global warming concept and None Lower taxes on fuel like Texas No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Look at the models for growth in stateslike Florida, and Texas. NA
accept the fact that it is the sun and ourweakening magnetic shield.
David Beatty 97071 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Energy Increase electricity production andincrease use of clean natural gas No limitations on home natural gas use No one. No limitation on home natural gas use Wyoming No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Elizabeth Israel-Davis 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce It's a truth now that all adults in a family must work a paying job to afford thecost of living. But the price of child care often eats up at least one income in We need to keep our voter approvedPreschool for All plan and program Continuing on the timeline with moreand more no-cost preschool slots for all Our local Multnomah Countygovernments need to stand firmly in Our revolutionary Multnomah CountyPreschool for All program! Universal NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregonians need affordable housing,childcare, healthcare, and wages to NA
a family. Our Multnomah County Preschool for all is making great, onschedule strides towards providing no cost, safe, educational preschool for moving forward, fully funded with nointerference from short-sighted, wealthy families in all neighborhoods.there is interest in expanding the model And if solidarity with the voters who approvedthe tax and plan for Preschool for All. free pre-K is gaining momentumnationwide. The program we already sustain a family. We need businessowners to think about sustainability and
all of our families.lifts whole communities. It’s among the best money a local government can Preschool is a three-generation poverty reducer that business owners who only want toenrich themselves, not our whole throughout the state, that's fabulous!But not instead of our voter approved The Governor needs to remember whoelected her because of her formerly have here is a national model for how itcould and should be done. Expanding it future generations, not maximizingprofits. Humans are for community, not
spend to ensure better quality of life for everyone. communities. The best climate forbusiness is a highly skilled labor force Multnomah County Preschool for Allprogram. In conjunction with, yes. well-deserved reputation ofrepresenting the will of everyday people, while keeping the quality high will helpour region remain competitive when it to exploit for labor. When we can centerour shared humanity and make policy
that’s paid family wages. Maybe a smoother path for newprograms because of lessons learned not wealthy donors with unsupportedeconomic statistics. comes to attracting and retainingworkers and their young families. decisions based on that, then we canmake plans and decisions which
in Multnomah County, sure. Also, the work being done byHealthcare for All Oregon. I am hoping sustain everyone. Please choose thehumanity and human needs of
that when they present their plan to thestate legislature in 2026 that legislators everyone, not just those who are loudand used to getting their way (to the
will move forward to implementuniversal healthcare in our state. point where equity feels likepersecution to them).
Brian Burke 97045 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The state is very costly to run a business. Property tax, high income tax,CAT, higher utility costs, threats of cutting natural gas usage. Someone can Decrease taxes, remove the CAT Business stops moving out of state. It starts at the top. The governor andlegislative branch working together to NA Go to any other state and you will seegasoline costs .50 to 1.00 less per Yes Tools for growth NA My property taxes went up by over $500last year and I did not do any Cut wasteful spending. Go after anyfraud. Decrease taxes. No more rate increases for utilities. The governor. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
run the exact same business in another state but able to keep more of theirmoney. More business income means higher wages, more spending on reduce the cost of working and living inOregon. Decrease fees, etc. gallon, that is a start. (no expensiveblends) renovations to my house. I pay more forgas than most of the US. I pay high
tools for their business. income taxes and many businessesare passing on the CAT tax. Over $250
to register my vehicle for a two yearperiod.
Domonic Biggi 97124 Both Beaverton Foods, Inc. Private Food andBeverage NA 101-500 people Business climate Tax and regulation burden on businesses with less than 200 employees.Statistically small businesses and family/Oregon owned businesses. Big businesses get tax rebates,deferments, special zoning waivers, An environment where we rewardFamily/Oregon owned businesses Everyone. Complete adoption of "Howto preserve and grow current Oregon Enterprise Zones. Opportunity Zones.Incentive Programs to increase NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
numerous tax incentives. Smallerbusinesses are forced to pay in full. choose to stay locally owned and growin Oregon. businesses" investment into people and equipment
Tatman 97306 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Corporate taxes are creating a worsening business climate. No wondercompanies either are leaving, layoff off, or not hiring. STOP raising taxes and STOP lookingto businesses for those taxes since Recall of CAT taxes and reinstatementof connecting to federal tax code. Governor and Legislature. NA NA Yes Workforce NA Drive our students back to school(including home school options and Return to minimum graduationqualifications for reading / writing / math. Test scores and graduation rates thatno longer reflect lowered expectations / Governor, Legislature, Teacher's Union None. This state has been payingmore and reducing outcomes for 20+ NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
those just roll down to employees,clients, and commodities. And school choice) where they actually learnand graduate with skills. no expectations. years.
disconnecting from the federal tax codehurts small businesses.
Lark Saurman 97540 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It is important to me and others I knowto keep the option of natural gas use NA
open and available to everyone. Welove using natural gas for heating and
cooking. Please don't try to pass anylaws restricting its use or putting taxes
or fees on its use.
Bradley T Young 97124 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce natural gas none leave our usage alone NA NA expansion of the UGB regarding the1700 acres in North city of Hillsboro, Expansion of Jobs No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Governor should of signed the BiPartisan Senate bill $ two years ago.
Tiffany Bowie 97230 Organization/Business Oregon Tradeswomen, Inc Non-profit NA WorkforceDevelopmen 1 - 20 people Workforce Currently the economy has slowed to the point where apprenticeship listsare closed. Finding work in construction related industries challenging for Provide favorable economicdevelopment to encourage growth. More emphasis on development, relaxpermit times and restrictions, reduce Local government and legislature More affordable housing, could be evenmore affordable if the state and cities Not the US- Ireland in particular is doinga great job of investing in truly No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
t- PreApprenticesh our student- many are low income Currently permit times are extremelyslow- higher than most other development fees to encourage growth.Reuce the tax burden to middle class relax taxes, permit fees anddevelopment fees. Bring in a sales tax affordable housing but also offeringquality affordable housing to the middle
ip trainingand outreach jurisdiction in City of Portland.Development fees are through the roof as they are leaving the Portland Area toWashington State to reduce the burden on the residents. class.
before you break ground. City politicshave stalled Broadway Corridor project
which is vital to the health of the Cityand provides much needed jobs.
Martha DeLong 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce lack of sufficient funding for education both pre-12 and higher ed Full school year for pre-school throughhigh school. No need for tuition Oregon no longer at the bottom forstates for number of days. No tuition legislatures local government localschool districts voters Multnomah county pre-school for all Pre-school for alll No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Quality education is a major incentivefor people to move to oregon. NA
increased for next 3 to 5 years at statecolleges increases for state colleges in lastthree years.
Evann Walters 97302 Both Fresh N Local Foods Private Food andBeverage Meals andServices for 21-100 people Tools for growth Access to capital We need grants for equipment andworking capital to support growth A fund that midsize companies canaccess that will help scale a business I’m unsure NA Grants rather than loans tied to growth No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Ben Borman 97527 Myself NA NA NA schoolsNA NA Tools for growth Governor Kotec Republican Governor Republican Majority Voters None Republican Majority No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Suzanna Kassouf 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Workers need affordable childcare in order to contribute effectively to theworkforce. Free universal childcare 0-5. Fully funded childcare for all children 0-5. All/ Preschool for all. The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The best climate for business is ahighly skilled labor force that’s paid NA
family wagesgrowth are education and The best tools for family wagesgrowth are education and The best tools for
apprenticeships and affordablehousing Universal, free, high-quality apprenticeships and affordablehousing Universal, free, high-quality
preschool is an economic silver bullet— it delivers a 3-to-1 return on preschool is an economic silver bullet— it delivers a 3-to-1 return on
investment and raises family incomesby about 22% on average. It’s a three- investment and raises family incomesby about 22% on average. It’s a three-
generation poverty reducer that liftswhole communities. It’s among the generation poverty reducer that liftswhole communities. It’s among the
best money a local government canspend to ensure better quality of life for best money a local government canspend to ensure better quality of life for
everyone.gaining momentum nationwide. The Universal free pre-K is everyone.gaining momentum nationwide. The Universal free pre-K is
program we already have here is anational model for how it could and program we already have here is anational model for how it could and
should be done. Expanding it whilekeeping the quality high will help our should be done. Expanding it whilekeeping the quality high will help our
region remain competitive when itcomes to attracting and retaining region remain competitive when itcomes to attracting and retaining
workers and their young families. workers and their young families.
Curtis haugen 97601 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth I believe the biggest barrier is the policy of taxing the companies out ofOregon. Our taxes are one of the highest in the nation. business are Think of other sources other than solar.Solar last 25 years if they do not burn There a lot of options that have notlooked into. there are new ways of hydro The government has to act because youhave taken it out of the hands of the Right now none. Lower taxes, stop mail in voting, nogovernment funds to illegals, Put 2 term Yes NA NA Stop listening to just to the WillametteValley. Have one person from each county onyour board. a state that Oregonians could be proudof and prosper. also open up logging to The government. Governor on down, None No taxes when you attract business thatare willing to support Oregon. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA n/a NA
leaving because of the taxes, people are leaving because of the taxes. Alsothe eastern part of the state has no representation in our government and it first. If they do the harmfully affects ofthe batteries will create such a electric(without damming the rivers,new ways of electric generators with out people. limits on everyone that is voted on in thegovernment, No retirement pay for manage our forest
showed. We are the laughing stock of the nation.. Our gas and solarpolicies do not care about the people of Oregon. Just so you can run your hazardous waste. using solar or wind) and a lot better forthe land and forests. career politicians , no health insurancefor the government than what the
policies. Start thinking about the people, and remember that , when youare doing that there is more than the Willamette Valley. citizens have.
Dan Wolfe 97333 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The governor Fire the current governor and elect aconservative governor that actually Besides lowering taxes and red tape,spending time actually listening to NA NA NA Yes Workforce NA Again, the governor Lowering income taxes and businesstaxes Lower income taxes and lowerbusiness taxes would stimulate growth Legislature NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
listens to the people of this state Oregonians especially those east of theCascades in other areas
Shelley Baker-Gard 97202 Both Shelley Baker-Gard TutoringServices Private NA Education 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Employees who need preschool for children which enables them to work Preschool for all and daycare to - look atNew York! A New York scenario local state governments, employers,education/training preschool for all works preschool for all works use it as amodel and scrap the other state No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon's ranking for student successand education is in the bottom 5 in the NA
programs that are not successful nation see article by By Kevin MahnkenMarch 4,
2026https://www.the74million.org/article/amid-dismal-test-scores-oregon-
weighs-its-short-school-year/ -preschool has proven to be effective.
The council need to realize that goodschools and education attract all
income levels to the state. Thecouncil's membership needs to have
more diversity in individual incomes ofits members to obtain a quality decision
making platform. Who on the board ismaking less than $50k per year?
NA 97068 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes, fees, regulations, and restrictions are way too high currently. Weneed to lower taxes, lower spending, lower regulations, and cut the red 1. Lower personal income taxes 2.Lower the corporate income tax. 3. More businesses moving and startingin our state, hiring people, population Everyone! This is a team effort. Weneed to start clearly with the governor Business tax credits to spur innovationand start-up opportunities in our state. Just look at Texas, Florida, Tennessee,Nevada, Idaho, Montana, Arizona...the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Follow the libertarian model of success.Spend less, be frugal with taxpayer NA
tape to encourage more businesses to start, expand, and hire in ourregion. We are stifling innovation, pushing companies away, and this Eliminate the CAT Tax. 4. Lower gastaxes and DMV-related fees. 5. Cut growing, Portland recovering to pre-COVID levels (it's STILL not there 6 and state legislature; localgovernments will follow the state lead. State tax deductions, exemptions, etc.for our property taxes and children. list of states seeing increasedeconomic activity, lower costs, lower dollars, prioritize infrastructure projects,stop wasting money on climate change
results in families departing, schools shutting down, and the tax basedeteriorating, as we've witnessed over recent years. spending across the board to balancethe budget and yield the economics to years later!), lower cost of living acrossthe board, more housing starts, etc. Employers and residents will see thebenefits. gas prices, new business creation andHQ transitions is obvious to everyone. agenda and other programs that do notprovide results. Be mindful of your
the private sector These states benefit from low taxes,lower spending, and a better quality of taxpayer base and resources and stoptreating taxpayers as a piggy bank!
life for residents. Clearly, that is the blueprint to successful policy.
Tim Abshire 97267 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The limitations placed on natural gas that are forcing developers to installelectric only appliances. Allow the market to take care of itselfrather than forcing developers to select The mandates that developers andbuilders must use in new Legislature and local governmentsneed to reopen the option for Nothing comes specifically to mind The elimination of sanctuary city andstate mandates that allow illegal aliens, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Portland Metro area has turned intoa complete eyesore where drug addicts NA
only one fuel type. Remove electric onlymandates for new construction. developments and construction aremodified to include natural gas as an development with the use of natural gas the freedom to infiltrate our society withcriminal behavior. Require voter ID are free to occupy sidewalks to relievethemselves and Sleep. It’s an
option. before anyone can vote along witheliminating mail in voting. embarrassment to bring guests fromother parts of the United States into the
city of Portland without having to warnthem what they are about to witness.
Our leadership in law-enforcement arelame in their efforts to protect hard-
working law, abiding citizens. Withoutsignificant changes in leadership, the
city of Portland will continue to be alaughing stock of the United States,
along with Seattle and other extremelyprogressive communities. Business
owners are vacating prime propertywhere for years they had been
successful to now having to fend off thecriminal activity and vagrancy. What
business would wanna remain in ourcommunity when this is what they face?
Thomas Rogers 97223 Both Tom Rogers Enterprise LLC Private Metals andMachinery HVAC 1 - 20 people Business climate Let's be real Stop endless laws, let people decidefor themselves. Less government Everyone None Let's go are own way No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA People know better than government NA
Debbie Aiona 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth We need to implement policies that make it possible for people to not onlywork, but to earn a living wage. Free child care, efficient and affordable I would like to see the state focus moreon growing home grown business and More women in the workforce, morepeople who are able to stay housed All of the above. Oregon's land use laws. I want to seeOregon continue to protect natural New Mexico just enacted universal childcare. Quebec provides child care and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Look at our tax system -- why do weoffer large tax breaks for data centers, NA
mass transit, health care, universal basic income. stop throwing money/tax breaks at largecorporations. This is especially true for because they are earning enough topay rent, more local businesses resource land and focus growth insideurban growth boundaries. We should their female workforce participation rateincreased dramatically. I can't point to a for example, when they provide few jobsand threaten the stability of our
large corporations that employ fewworkers. operating successfully. not be using concerns about housingand jobs to undermine prudent use of a specific state/locality, but free transitwould help workers save money on electrical power system? I imaginethere are other giveaways that aren't
finite resource -- land. transportation. making Oregon more prosperous.
