buildable industrial land with market realities. However, upon convening, it quickly became apparent
that the issues faced by the region are bigger than methodology alone and that actions should go
beyond technical fixes to include more substantive changes.
The workgroup was comprised of commercial real estate brokers and developers, private sector
planners, economists, and public sector partners including city, county, regional and state partners.
Metro staff both participated in, and served as advisors throughout, the process. We hope this work can
result in a model of what can happen when we bring together experts from across our region to a single
table using a solution-oriented approach to tackle big problems.
Two goals emerged from this workgroup:
1. To help Metro create a forecast process with growth scenarios that consider economic
development interventions and market demand to create more aspirational forecasts, while
still meeting State requirements.
2. To encourage Metro Council to center economic development through creation of an economic
development focused “table” composed of technical staff and industry experts to strategize on
technical fixes to ensure that industrial land availability can meet market demands in a timely
manner.
Over the course of the convening, the workgroup committed to educating ourselves about Oregon’s
Statewide Land Use Planning Goal 9: Economic Development, forecasting and market analysis, and land
readiness and investment needs for our region and state. It is within the context of this shared learning
and the individual expertise offered by workgroup participants that we feel we can help Metro identify
solutions that will unlock the potential of our region to grow a diverse and vibrant economy.
The WEA team produced a draft memo of recommendations and presented it to Metro Councilors and
staff. During this series of meetings, WEA learned that Metro Council has formed an economic
development working group, which includes Councilors Gonzales, Lewis and Simpson. WEA also learned
that Metro staff is developing a proposal for Council consideration which includes actions that can be
taken to support and enhance economic development in our region. “Job Ready Lands” will be one of
their top priorities in this work.
As a result of collaboration with Metro staff and Council this memo has been updated. All of the original
draft recommendations are retained but have been updated and reformatted to align and help shape
the upcoming work of the Council on economic development. During this time, we also learned of the
Governor’s Roadmap to Prosperity effort including the creation of an Oregon Prosperity Council. This
new effort will create an elevated opportunity for this work to be integrated into future legislative
action.
We are determined to help find a path forward for the region to develop a 20-year and beyond
employment land supply and economic forecasting system that reflects market realities, supports
economic growth, and bridges public and private sector perspectives concerning ongoing economic
uncertainty. We believe our region must prioritize building a future-focused economy. In addition to
forecasting updates and other measures, the public and private sectors must work together in a
meaningful way.
2
Industrial Land Readiness Workshop | Memorandum of Recommendations | February 11, 2026
www.WestsideAlliance.org
