and services, can substantially reduce combined household costs even where housing prices are higher. By
contrast, lower-cost housing in auto-dependent areas can come with higher transportation costs that wipe out
any housing savings and drive up the total cost of living.
For Oregon, where many households already spend a large share of their income on housing and
transportation combined, aligning land use with multimodal access is one of the most effective ways to improve
real affordability. The goal should not be cheaper housing on paper, but lower total costs to Oregonians.
[48][18]
2.4 - Transit is essential for labor-market access and workforce participation
For employers, transportation is the gateway to workers. However, transit access is still too often treated as a
secondary issue, even though roughly 30 percent of Oregonians cannot or do not drive. That is why transit
funding can deliver such a strong economic return. It does not just move people from one place to another. It
connects workers to jobs, employers to larger labor pools, and more Oregonians to opportunities to build
income and wealth through affordable transportation. [54]
A Brookings study found that the typical job is accessible to only about 27 percent of the metropolitan
workforce by transit. Stronger transit networks, especially when paired with better land-use planning, can
materially improve employers’ access to workers. A 2025 review, Public transport investments as generators of
economic and social activity, concluded that public transport investments can generate broader economic and
social benefits by improving accessibility, increasing employment opportunities, and raising incomes through
better access to jobs, education, and services. For Oregon, investments in transit frequency, coverage, safe
first- and last-mile connections, and transit-supportive land use are not just social policy; they are pro-business
tools that can support stronger labor markets, higher workforce participation, and better job matching that can
increase incomes. [10][11][12][10]
2.5 - Transportation electrification, related grid investments, and resilience
The State Energy Strategy finds that the lowest-cost path for Oregon depends on high levels of efficiency and
electrification. This means that as we electrify our transportation sector, we will also be investing in our grid and
energy systems. Energy strategy modeling estimates that the transition from fossil fuels to electrification could
add roughly 10,700 to 18,200 jobs in the electricity sector by 2035. It also found that delaying the electrification
of medium- and heavy-duty transportation would increase costs by about $31 billion by 2050 compared to the
least cost pathway that leans into MHD electrification, mostly due to higher fuel costs borne by fleets. For
households and fleets, the basic economics are just as important. Electric vehicles can reduce fuel and
maintenance costs over the life of the vehicle, with federal sources estimating savings of up to roughly $21,000
in discounted lifetime costs. Electrification is not only a climate strategy, it is a cost-saving, local jobs, and
energy-resilience strategy. [19][20][23][24]
At scale, electrification strengthens Oregon’s economy by shifting transportation spending away from imported
gasoline and diesel and toward domestic industries such as Oregon utilities, electricians, charger installers,
grid upgrades, and local electrical maintenance jobs. That matters for resilience as well as affordability. Instead
of sending more household and business dollars out of state through fuel purchases, which are quite literally
8
