2. Examine and take steps to Reform Oregon’s tax structure
Many stakeholders identified Oregon’s tax burden, including state and local taxes, as a top concern. The
cumulative weight of state and local taxes was described as unsustainable for business and a disincentive
to locating in Oregon. Responses referenced existing tax structures as duplicative and often rooted in
outdated systems originally designed without keeping in mind rising yearly inflation, as well as the ‘slim
margins’ of Oregon-based small or mid-sized businesses.
Broadly supported themes:
● Corporate Activity Tax (CAT) reform: Suggested changes range from near-term administrative fixes
(directing the Department of Revenue to address rule interpretations) to mid-term legislative
approaches (assigning rates by NAICS codes and raising thresholds) to long-term structural
replacement (moving to a Business Activity Tax or true Value-Added Tax). Multiple sources argue
the CAT should be redone rather than tweaked, citing sector-specific examples of how tax liability
can compound at multiple points in a supply chain, increasing costs for producers and industries.
Some respondents noted the disproportionate impact the CAT tax has on small business
owners, as one respondent stated:
“The biggest barrier small business owners face in Oregon today is the Oregon Corporate
Activity Tax (CAT). While its intent may have been to broaden the tax base, the CAT has
become a significant drag on growth for Main Street businesses that operate with slim
margins.”
● Comprehensive tax reform is overdue: Several sources call for a bipartisan tax reform task force.
Several propose considering a broad-based sales tax at a low rate, paired with offsetting reductions
in income and corporate taxes. Sources acknowledge this is politically difficult but describe it as
necessary for long-term competitiveness and revenue stability.
Respondents look forward to coordinated efforts for tax reform and emphasize the overdue
need, one survey respondent emphasized:
“Build a tax reform or tax modernization coalition made up of electeds, business groups,
labor, and local governments that are committed to co-designing a tax system for the 22nd
[sic] century.”
Additional perspectives:
● Reforming tax structure for small to mid-sized businesses. Multiple sources suggested reviewing
tax thresholds to reduce the tax burden on small to medium-sized businesses, including
suggestions to tie thresholds to inflation and offering tax forbearance plans to small businesses.
Survey respondents envisioned success in 2-3 years that looked like less burdens on small
businesses:
“Success in 2–3 years would look measurable, not rhetorical. First, we would see net-
positive small-business formation in Oregon, with more businesses opening than closing.
The current outflow of employers relocating to lower-tax, lower-regulation states would
reverse or, at a minimum, stabilize. Second, we would see meaningful reform of the
Appendix A. Prosperity Council Engagement Report ú June 2026
10
