Corporate Activity Tax, reflected in lower effective tax burdens on small and mid-sized
businesses.”
● Local tax preemption. Some sources argue that without preemption of local income and payroll
taxes, any state-level reforms will be replaced by new local levies. Sources from the Portland Metro
area propose structured sunset reviews for new tax measures and higher signature thresholds for
tax-raising ballot initiatives.
● SB 1507 and Oregon’s partial disconnect: SB 1507 is cited as contributing to increased costs for
small businesses through the removal of accelerated depreciation. Decoupling from federal
Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS) policy could discourage startup formation, reduce access to
capital, and incentivize entrepreneurs and investors to locate in other states.
● Reforming the estate tax. Some sources identified Oregon’s estate tax thresholds as a concern,
particularly for capital retention, family business continuity, and farm and ranch succession.
Recommendations included raising the threshold and creating more succession-friendly treatment
for family farms and ranches.
Competing perspectives:
A small number of sources opposed several of the tax reform ideas raised elsewhere in the feedback. These
sources cautioned against reducing Oregon’s top marginal income tax rates, eliminating or substantially
streamlining the Corporate Activity Tax, and exploring a sales tax. They emphasized that the CAT is
dedicated to education funding and noted that Oregon voters have repeatedly rejected sales tax proposals.
These sources also raised broader concerns about business tax breaks and incentives, calling for any tax
expenditures to be tied to enforceable conditions related to wages, training, and community benefits.
3. Incentivize a faster and more competitive permitting and regulatory
environment
Oregonians converged on the need for more streamlined, timely, and transparent permitting and regulatory
processes. Respondents emphasized that they felt that the current system creates complicated and long
permitting processes that contribute to a higher barrier to entry for businesses to start. Additionally, many
respondents suggested fast-tracking permitting for target industries, better staffing at the local level
agencies, and significantly greater coordination between state and local entities related to environmental
and land-use regulations or restrictions.
Broadly supported themes:
● Streamline permitting and increase transparency: Specific mechanisms recommended include
transparency dashboards, one-stop permitting offices, digital permitting systems, predictable
maximum timelines, and fast-track pathways for strategic industries. Multiple sources cite wetland
and floodplain permitting as particularly slow and costly.
In response to the best-practices question, several survey respondents suggested models
from other states. One respondent explained:
“Several states have implemented practices that improve predictability and efficiency in
their business climate: One-Stop Permitting Systems: Centralized platforms that allow
businesses to navigate permitting requirements through a single, coordinated process.
Appendix A. Prosperity Council Engagement Report ú June 2026
11
