Aggregate growth and productivity, as measured by real output, or Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) has not been Oregon’s problem. Portland ranks 12th in productivity, and above average
in GDP growth, among large metro areas. Bend ranks first in GDP growth and productivity of
mid-sized metro areas, and both Salem and Eugene-Springfield are above average. Statewide,
Oregon’s GDP per worker has increased faster than in the rest of the country for the past
quarter century. Oregon’s big challenge today is to make sure that this economy contributes to
the prosperity of all Oregonians, particularly low- and middle-income earners.
Systemic social problems persist
The encouraging picture of Oregon’s economy is not intended to imply that the status quo is
adequate. Oregon faces a myriad of challenges, including job losses in 2025. Two of the
Portland area’s largest companies, Intel and Nike, experienced very poor years, directly laying
off more than five thousand workers. Additionally, as with many states across the country,
Oregon is struggling with how to assist the unhoused population, how to expand affordable
housing, how to create an effective mental health care system, and how to streamline
permitting.
The Oregon Business Council (OBC) is correct in telling the Council that there is a need for
more affordable housing, adequate funding for K-12 education, pre-school and childcare, and a
streamlined regulatory system. While other groups may be grappling with solutions to these
serious community problems, the Council should still consider these in its deliberations.
Improving housing affordability requires building more places to live. Zoning codes for dense
urban housing, ADUs and other options can maximize land use for residential purposes.
Effectively dealing with drug, alcohol and mental health problems requires increased
effectiveness and funding of social service agencies.
Similarly, lingering effects of the pandemic have taken a toll on our reputation, with media
stories about “war torn” Portland, ongoing employer telecommuting policies, and high vacancy
rates in downtown Portland commercial office space.
These problems are complex and the solutions are not easy, but there are reasons to be
hopeful. Downtown Portland is coming back. Progress is being made in efforts to expand
housing accessible to many more of our neighbors. Oregonians’ resistance to the draconian
immigrant deportation policies currently in place have re-established it as a state determined to
protect civil liberties.
As the NYT reported on March 25, 2026, “Living in Portland, Ore.: Weird, but Life Is Good.”
“Beyond its well-known quirkiness and activism, it is a city designed for leisure, with
access to nature and a high quality of life. “I think Portland has a P.R. problem,” said
Pamela Baker-Miller, owner of Frances May, the boutique she opened in the city’s
downtown 18 years ago. “Portland is a really special place to live and it’s a really
1
amazing place to start a business.”
1
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/25/realestate/portland-ore-weird-but-life-is-good.html
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 6 of 17
