Skilled trades registered apprenticeship programs
Affiliated unions of the Oregon State Building and Construction Trades Council have
demonstrated decades of success in delivering high-quality registered apprenticeship programs.
These programs provide on-the-job training for projects at every level from basic to highly
technical while creating pathways to family wage careers that help to improve living standards
throughout Oregon and Washington. Importantly, research shows that completing a union
apprenticeship can be just as valuable as earning a four-year degree, while allowing skilled
trades workers to “earn while they learn” and avoid student debt.
The Council should not recommend weakening apprenticeship standards by changing the ratios
of apprentices to journey level workers or addressing reciprocity. Apprenticeship programs are
within the jurisdiction of BOLI and the Apprenticeship and Training Council. They involve
quality, worker safety and issues that this Council is not equipped to address.
Vocational and other apprenticeship programs
Community College Career and Technical Education (CET) Programs have expanded with an
emphasis on strengthening industry-aligned, high wage and in-demand occupations. They
currently focus on these program areas: agricultural sciences, business and management,
health sciences, industrial and engineering systems. These efforts should be augmented by
more business partnerships which include paid internship programs.
In health care, the Kaiser Permanente Labor-Management Partnership and the SEIU RISE
Program are strong examples of successful labor-management training programs. The
AFSCME-BOLI Behavioral Health Program (United We Heal) is another strong apprenticeship
program with huge potential to provide much needed community services in the behavioral
5
health field. And, it could do substantially more with even minimal increased funding.
By combining course work and on-the-job training, these proven programs advance careers,
deliver improved quality of care, and fill in-demand jobs needed by their partner companies. The
state should consider, as a condition of offering business tax expenditures, that the recipient
companies must provide career ladders with paid training and apprenticeship programs (using
BOLI approved programs, where available, and local community college programs, particularly
CTE programs, with annual accountability reports) to improve their employees’ skills and thus
wages and eligibility for higher level in-demand jobs in their companies or their industry.
Implement guardrails and worker-centered policies on artificial intelligence so that AI
supports prosperity
Notably, Oregon’s Prosperity Roadmap is silent about artificial intelligence (AI), despite its
inevitable impact on the state’s economy and workforce, which is already underway. Oregon
could position itself as a leader in the nation in ensuring this technological advancement
supports prosperity for all. AI has the potential to increase productivity and the potential to
create opportunities for upskilling and job transitions that lead to better and higher paying jobs. It
5
Kaiser Labor-Management Partnership:
https://www.lmpartnership.org/about/how-partnership-works/what-is-partnership; SEIU RISE Partnership:
https://www.risepartnership.com/our-programs/; AFSCME/BOLI, United We Heal: https://oregonuwh.org
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 10 of 17
