Dale Depweg, PhD. 97128 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Affordable & viable post secondary education programs to allow &encourage/reward our youth to Stay, Prosper, and Contribute to Oregon's Keep and expand the high quality andvaried educational doors of opportunity NA All of the above! Affordable and high quality publicschools, trade schools & internships, Other European countries such asGermany, and virtually every Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
economy, and highly valued social & environmental quality of life &community! & growth. This Must include wellcoordinated relationships, training and Community Colleges, & stateuniversities and colleges. Also, an Scandinavian country!
internships with Oregon industries anbusiness so that skills taught are of expanded focus on internationalrelationships/ education-- beginning
those with a viable and productivefuture- good for our youth, our with languages and exchangeprograms!
businesses, industries, and innovation.
Leeor Schweitzer 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The biggest barrier is wealth inequality. Wealth inequality leads tounaffordable living costs, which means people have less disposable I'd like to see recommendations thatbetter reallocate money from rich smaller wealth gap, more people whocan afford their daily costs state and local governments can bothlook to ways to reallocate money from Preschool for All, libraries, K-12education, public transportation, wealth tax, public housing, freehealthcare for everyone, guaranteed No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA prosperity for the rich doesn't do muchfor the rest of us, please prioritize NA
income to spend at businesses. people to services for the greater public. rich people towards public services tenants rights, public parks, so manymore representation for tenants, rent control(but real rent control that is no higher prosperity for everyone
than cost of living increases), freetransit, frequent transit, streetscape
projects
Lauren Anderson 97211 Organization/Business Oregon Wild Non-profit Forestry andWood Products NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Oregon’s economy depends on a healthy environment. Our forests, rivers,and other incredible natural resources support an outdoor recreation Permanent protections for mature andold-growth forests on federal and state Protected drinking watersheds, nomore logging of mature and old growth The Governor’s office and statelegislature should lead in developing Oregon’s Natural Climate Solutions billand Natural and Working Lands Fund See examples here fore ideas:https://www.ncel.net/articles/new-report- No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
industry worth $16 billion in annual consumer spending and approximately192,000 full- and part-time jobs. However, development, logging, mining, lands; Strategies for reducinggreenhouse gas emissions from the forests on federal lands, on track toprotect an additional 10% of lands and new policies to protect Oregon’s publiclands and forests, and should call on were both important forest steps forsupporting better practices on private state-policy-leadership-to-conserve-nature/ Oregon Wild does not support
climate change, and biodiversity loss threaten this economy. The ProsperityCouncil should recommend the strongest possible protections for logging and wood products industry inOregon (the state's largest source of water in 10 years, and reducedgreenhouse gas emissions from the Oregon’s congressional delegation todo the same. lands. The state should invest more inthis program. On federal lands all of these legislative proposals, butthey do represent a good resource for
Oregon’s public lands, and should include recommendations for investingin natural climate solutions, such as protections for our mature and old- greenhouse gas emissions);Protection of drinking watersheds on logging industry. (approximately 50% of Oregon's land ismanaged by the federal government), generating new ideas.
growth forests. The Trump administration’s efforts to privatize and liquidatenatural resources from public lands represent one of the greatest threats public lands; Equity and justiceconsiderations; Prioritization of Tribal the Prosperity Council shouldrecommend strong support for current
we’ve had to contend with in decades. The Prosperity Council shouldrecommend strong opposition to these attacks. consultation;targets and conservation plans; Quantitative statewide conservation measures, including theNorthwest Forest Plan, the Roadless
Establishment and investment inconservation funds; Tax incentives for Rule, and protections for mature andold-growth forests on Western Bureau
additional conservation measures; Taxincentives and grants for natural carbon of Land Management Lands. TheTrump administration’s efforts to
sequestration (including incentives forlonger logging rotations for private privatize public lands and liquidateOregon natural resources is not in line
forest owners);parks and conservation lands; and Establishing new state with the values of Oregonians.
Investment in wildlife corridors andhabitat connectivity.
Pamela 97459 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth #3 and #4 of the strategic goals for Oregon's economy are key to economicdevelopment. The focus should be there. Infrastructure needs to be I would include people from the ruralareas to part of the planning and Our rural communities would have theaccess, funding, and exposure to the We need to have bipartisan, forwardthinking participation on all levels of Local economic developmentorganizations need to be a NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
improved specially in the rural areas in order to promote sustainablegrowth. And Modernizing our economic development tools will allow us to execution phases of the Governor'splan. If our rural communities aren't same considerations as thosecommunities along the I-5 corridor. This structure: government, business,education, and community leadership hub/resource for all communities. Oneplace for businesses, developers,
garner a larger share of the resources so desperately needed in our ruralareas. represented appropriately, how willanyone be able to create a plan will afford those communities to growand maintain their populations, to be boots on the ground. educators, to get the information anddirection needed for success in
including our needs? We need to havea seat at the table. reducing the overpopulated "majorcities" which would be critical for business, education, jobs, and housingfor their communities. Funding these
ongoing rural community success. If wecan't sustain the businesses within the organizations to provide information thatcan be disseminated to those who
communities, the young adults willleave to find their success elsewhere. need it most. Saving thoseorganizations from having to reinvent
Success for rural communities wouldsee population increases (instead of the wheel each time.
brain drains) to take advantage ofbusiness opportunities closer to their
homes and families. This wouldperpetuate ongoing growth and
prosperity to current and futuregenerations and the ability to increase
capacity for everything needed to stayrelevant.
Emily Krafft 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce I'd like the prosperity council to look at how we can boost earnings andprovide more opportunities for women in the local workforce. One big Expanding options for day care andpreschool, and making it free, can Free preschool and daycare programswidely available for Oregon families Multnomah County has taken the leadon Preschool for All. State-level OR Dept of early learning and careprograms. New York City is creating free childcareprograms for all kids 0-5. I'd love to see No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA With government budgets tight thesedays, please direct investments to NA
barrier is the availability and cost of childcare. Another is the fact thatsectors where predominantly women work, like caregiving professions, make a huge difference for families.Women often are the default caregivers, without waiting lists and lotteries.Increased wages in women-dominated partnership and support - or at least thestate getting out of the way instead of Oregon follow suit! working families instead of large out ofstate businesses. In particular, I am
tend to be lower paid and when there are free childcareoptions available, that opens up a lot fields. creating more obstacles - would helpmake this groundbreaking program a very concerned about subsidies for datacenters - we need to safeguard this
more options for job opportunities andcareer advancement. Programs that success. It would great for thelegislature to consider options for public money for Oregonians, localeconomies, and critical state level
boost wages for lower-paid jobs canalso make a big difference and I'd like creating a similar program statewidethat meets the needs of all Oregon safety net programs
to see more government action tosupport this - for example, the families.research on the impacts of Preschool More broadly, I'd like to see
mimimum wage requirements set inPCEF and Preschool For All. In for All and PCEF on the local economyand workforce development to inform
addition to workforce benefits,programs like these can have broad the creation of innovative new local andstate-level economic development
impacts on supporting the localeconomy and growing new businesses. programs
Alicia John 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate X X X X X X No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Anna Chittum 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate fees and taxes for programs that are not providing the benefit taxpayers andratepayers expect them to Move to a whole market-based systemfor carbon trading, so we can actually Oregon adopts a cap and trade systemthat can trade with other states; Oregon State legislature and public schooldistricts; state agencies NA California's cap and trade program;Oklahoma is somehow able to fund No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
benefit from carbon markets in CA andWA, not the Climate Protection Program adopts an educational fundingframework that is durable and universal preschool and excellentfacilities for K-12 public school
which isn't actually funding CO2reductions on a 1:1 basis; also, figure sustainable
out K-12 funding so that we actually seetrue improvements in the # of days and
hours our kids spend in school
NA 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Make it easier and faster to build infrastructure of any kind in this state.Land use and environmental regulations make shovel-ready land near streamline the regulations and keep aninventory of shovel ready sites for Companies are interested and able tobuild here Legislature, local governments none PLEASE check out JobsOhio! They arefunded by state liquor licenses / sales Yes Workforce NA Seemingly high staffing shortages ingovernment agencies, child care, and STOP trying to create new programs incommunity colleges, etc. for sectors People working in sectors likehealthcare and child care are actually All of the above! NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
impossible. companies to build and not faceDECADES of delays in the permitting and have made it an incredible state forbusiness. healthcare, but extremely highunemployment rates in where we have no trouble hiring.Please focus on child care/healthcare able to afford to live in Oregon.
process construction/skilled trades and public service jobs to make themmore attractive and actually pay livable
Dresden Albrecht 97030 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Providing housing for disadvantaged people. A stable foundation of basic Increase accessibility and funding for Expansion of programs. Streamlining Mostly the legislature and local Housing choice voucher. Vocational NA No NA NA NA wages.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Always choose support and NA
needs, including housing (as well as food and support services), will helppeople be in better position for training and pursuit of skilled labor. housing programs like like housingchoice vouchers and affordable on application processes. I don't expectthings to be fully implemented by this government. Also, if we want it to pass,community activists and supportive rehab. OHP. Actually, I'm not surewhich of these are state level, rehabilitation over punishment.
communities. Achieve this throughscaled income tax, leisure taxes (like time. Perhaps we are having them putto a vote by then. services. necessarily.
cannabis and alcohol), and businesstaxes.
Albert LePage 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The central challenge is that Oregon’s business climate still treatsprosperity too narrowly as growth and revenue, leading to regulatory, tax, I would explicitly reframe Oregon’sbusiness climate strategy around In 2–3 years, Oregon would be seen asa place where businesses experience State legislature: to set the overarchingprosperity framework, enact tax and Helpful elements that should continueand be strengthened include: Well-being-driven policy frameworks:states and regions experimenting with Yes Workforce NA The biggest challenge is that Oregon’sworkforce systems are not yet fully I would reorient workforce policy so thatits core success metrics are: good jobs In 2–3 years, Oregon’s workforcesystem would be recognized not just for Legislature and state agencies (e.g.,Higher Education Coordinating Future Ready Oregon and relatedworkforce initiatives that emphasize “Career pathways” and sectorpartnership models that couple Yes Tools for growth The key challenge is that Oregon’seconomic development toolkit—sites, I would redesign Oregon’s tools forgrowth as a “prosperity toolkit” that In 2–3 years, Oregon’s tools for growthwould reliably channel public and Legislature: to redefine statutory goalsfor economic development tools, Oregon’s Economic DevelopmentStrategy and Prosperity Roadmap, “Community wealth building” andinclusive development models that No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Outdoor Recreation as a fourth focusarea. Please see attached 2-page Governors%20Prosperity%20Council%20Survey%20Fourth%20Area%20Outdo
and permitting systems that don’t reliably support long-term human andecological flourishing. These systems are often complex, fragmented, and “prosperity beyond growth,” integratingmeasurable goals for personal well- a fair, predictable, and efficientenvironment while communities regulatory changes, and require well-being and sustainability impact Oregon’s statewide economicdevelopment strategy and Prosperity broader prosperity or well-beingbudgeting approaches—similar in spirit aligned with a vision of prosperity thatcenters human flourishing, relational with flourishing people, resilientcommunities, and environmentally filling employer vacancies, but forproducing healthy, engaged, and Commission, workforce agencies): toset holistic outcome metrics, fund sector partnerships, equity, andstronger connections between employer engagement with strongworker supports and clear land use, incentives, infrastructure, andlocal initiatives—is not yet fully explicitly advances physical and mentalwell-being, strong communities, private investment toward projects thatbuild healthier people, stronger authorize new criteria, and directagencies to include well-being and which already connect businessclimate, workforce, and tools in a focus on local ownership, anchorinstitution procurement, and document. or%20Recreation%20Response%20Sumitted%20by%20Albert%20LePage.pdf
unpredictable for employers while also not consistently delivering strongoutcomes in health, equity, environmental sustainability, or community well- being, social capital, and ecologicalhealth into core business climate experience tangible improvements inwell-being, equity, and environmental assessments for major businessclimate policies. Governor’s office and Roadmap, which already highlightbusiness climate improvements, to global “well-being economy”models—where budget and policy wealth, and ecological responsibility,even as they try to respond to sustainable industries, not justplacement and wage numbers. resilient people contributing to thrivingcommunities and sustainable integrated supports, and prioritizesustainable sectors in workforce employers and training providers.Existing career and technical education advancement ladders, used in multiplestates’ workforce systems. designed or measured around thebroader notion of prosperity that environmental stewardship, timefreedom, and cultural vitality alongside communities, and more resilientecosystems, while still supporting environmental metrics.economic development and State statewide frame that can be expandedto include holistic prosperity metrics. reinvestment in neighborhoods, ratherthan only attracting external firms.
being. policies (regulation, taxation, andpermitting). Specific changes: quality.clearer processes: average permitting Concrete indicators: Faster, statewide economic developmentagencies (e.g., Business Oregon, workforce development, andcollaboration as strategic goals. decisions are screened against mentalhealth, social cohesion, and employers’ skill needs. Workforcestrategies still lean heavily toward filling Specific changes:workforce programs: integrate mental Design “whole-life” industries.Improved worker well-being: higher self- Concrete indicators: planning.institutions (K–12, community colleges, Education and training (CTE) and apprenticeship programsthat combine learning with real work Community college–centered lifelonglearning systems, where adults can re- includes people’s well-being, socialcapital, and ecological integrity. Tools business expansion.changes: Prosperity-aligned Specific viable businesses.indicators: Portfolio shift: a growing Concrete infrastructure agencies (e.g., BusinessOregon, transportation and housing Site readiness and infrastructureinvestments that prepare strategic State and regional incentive systemsthat explicitly incorporate job quality,
Embed well-being and sustainabilitymetrics into business climate decision- and regulatory decision times arereduced and more predictable, with Governor’s Prosperity Council): tocoordinate agencies, align business Programs like Future Ready Oregonand other sector-based workforce environmental indicators, not onlyeconomic growth. High-road jobs and chasing growth, rather thandesigning pathways that support whole- health support, parenting skillseducation, childcare, transportation, reported mental health, life satisfaction,and stability among participants in universities, CBOs): to redesigncurricula at the bare minimum, but experience, which can be expanded tomore sectors and communities. skill throughout life with flexible,stackable credentials and strong tend to prioritize near-term investmentand job counts, rather than long-term incentives: tie state and local incentivesto criteria such as job quality, share of state-supported projectsdemonstrably advance clean energy, agencies): to redesign programs,incentives, and site-readiness criteria locations for business, which can befurther conditioned on sustainability, climate alignment, and equity criteriainto scoring and eligibility. Holistic
making: require major tax, regulatory,and permitting changes to be evaluated transparent, service-oriented “no wrongdoor” support for employers, especially support around holistic prosperity, andlead on communication and initiatives that link business climatediscussions to talent, quality jobs, and economic development: models thatcondition incentives and expedited person well-being, communitycohesion, and sustainable sectors. stable scheduling, financial coaching,and time flexibility into training and workforce programs, especially amonglow-income and historically more appropriately, develop a student-based learning (i.e. students create Regional workforce and economicdevelopment planning (e.g., CEDS support services.services and workforce approaches Integrated human flourishing within planetary and sociallimits. community benefit agreements,emissions and resource-use resilience, local food systems, healthand care infrastructure, and community- around holistic prosperity outcomes.Local governments and regional access, and community benefit criteria.Regional Solutions and CEDS-based dashboards and prosperity indices thattrack social capital, health, and
for impacts on health, social cohesion,and natural systems, not just jobs and smaller firms and mission-drivenenterprises. Better quality of jobs and accountability.regional bodies: to implement Local governments and inclusive opportunity.Solutions and CEDS processes that Regional services on commitments to job quality,worker training, and local community employment initiatives so that peoplecan truly thrive, not just work. Prioritize marginalized groups.career paths: more workers in roles Quality jobs and their own curricula) educationalapproach that supports around whole- processes, Regional Solutions) thatalready encourage cross-sector where mental health, housing, andfamily supports are embedded into reductions, access to nature, andcontributions to local culture and public serving spaces.being improvements: communities Measurable well- entities: to apply prosperity criteria inzoning, land use, local incentives, and local initiatives that integrate economicdevelopment with community planning environmental metrics alongsideeconomic indicators for evaluating
GDP.road” regulatory and tax environment: Create a predictable, “high- workplaces: more employers provideliving wages, stable schedules, and streamlined, predictable permitting andland use processes that integrate foster cross-jurisdictional collaboration,community engagement, and alignment benefits, which can be seen in variousstate and regional “good jobs” and sectors that promote ecological andsocial well-being: expand training with living wages, benefits, predictableschedules, and clear advancement person development, relational skills,and lifelong learning. Employers: to collaboration and community input.Health, education, and social service training programs to promote realflourishing, not just job placement. spaces.ecological and social design: prioritize Site readiness with hosting growth projects seeimprovements in health indicators, infrastructure planning, and to convenecommunity input on project design. and cross-sector partnerships.Existing environmental and land use development projects.infrastructure and land-use strategies Integrated
simplify processes and timelines, butset clear expectations for living-wage safe, inclusive conditions; employeewell-being indicators (health, mental community input and ecologicalconstraints. Employers and business across infrastructure, land use, andbusiness development. Existing inclusive growth initiatives.social capital and natural capital Integrated pipelines into clean energy, climateresilience, health and care work, opportunities; lower turnover in keysectors because jobs are genuinely co-design programs that provide on-the-job learning, good working conditions, programs that can be more intentionallyintegrated with workforce supports to Green jobs and just transitionframeworks that explicitly link workforce sites and infrastructure that supporttransit access, walkability, green space, safety, social cohesion, and access tonature and culture. Higher trust and Employers and developers: to proposeand implement projects that meet frameworks that, if coupled with morepredictable and collaborative that align transit, housing, green space,and employment centers to reduce
jobs, worker voice, climate resilience,and community benefits as the health, satisfaction) improve, especiallyin lower-wage sectors. Stronger associations: to adopt “high-road”business practices (good jobs, environmental and land use protectionsthat safeguard long-term ecological metrics: places that embed socialcapital (trust, civic participation, education, and community-basedservices that build social capital. sustainable for people.alignment with sustainable sectors: Stronger and time flexibility, and to invest inworker development beyond narrow job address the full set of barriers peopleface. investments to climate action andenvironmental restoration, ensuring that affordable housing nearby, andresilient, low-carbon utilities. Support participation: more communitiesactively seek economic development higher standards for community benefit,environmental stewardship, and processes, can ensure tools for growthdo not undermine ecological well-being. commuting burdens and support timewealth and environmental sustainability.
standard for incentives and fast-tracktreatment. Align permitting with community trust: surveys showincreased trust in state institutions, inclusive workplaces, climateresponsibility) and engage in genuine prosperity and community quality of life,which can be paired with more inclusive norms) and naturalenvironment indicators into their Embed “relational” and civic skills:integrate teamwork, communication, increased share of training andcredentialing focused on clean tech, tasks.regional partnerships: to coordinate Local governments and prosperity and sustainability movetogether. for community-based and mission-driven enterprises: tailor tools for partnerships because they perceivetools as fair, transparent, and beneficial cultural contribution.organizations and residents: to co- Community
ecological limits: modernize permittingso that speed and certainty are paired higher civic participation aroundeconomic development, and more partnership with communities andworkers. Community, labor, and civil predictable processes rather thanweakened. prosperity dashboards, similar tocomprehensive index approaches. conflict resolution, and civicengagement into curricula so that health, education, and care economyroles that advance ecological and wraparound supports (housing, transit,childcare, health) that determine cooperatives, social enterprises, andlocal initiatives that reinvest in to residents.projects supported by the toolkit Ecological resilience: create visions for local prosperity andhelp evaluate whether tools are
with strong guardrails for emissions,land use, and habitat, prioritizing perceived fairness in who benefits fromgrowth. Ecological gains alongside society organizations: to articulatecommunity priorities, help design social One-stop business services: states thatprovide centralized, user-friendly portals workers contribute to strongrelationships and communities, not social prosperity.signals: more participation in Higher social capital whether training translates into trueprosperity. Community, labor, and communities and strengthen relationalwealth. Time and flexibility as policy contribute to lower emissions, better airand water quality, and more climate- delivering the intended benefits.
projects that advance clean energy,resilience, and biophilic design in investment: new investments andexpansions are demonstrably contract elements, and hold institutionsaccountable to well-being and justice and navigators across permitting,licensing, and incentives, reducing only technical tasks.learning and self-actualization: create Support lifelong community-based training,apprenticeships, cooperatives, and civic nonprofits: to ensure programs reflectcommunity needs and support goals: encourage business modelsand local initiatives that allow people resilient infrastructure.
workplaces.community participation: require Institutionalize consistent with Oregon’s climate andconservation goals (lower emissions, commitments. friction while still upholding strongstandards for people and planet. flexible, modular learning pathways thatlet people periodically re-skill, explore projects that deepen local ties and trust. populations historically excluded fromhigh-quality education and jobs. more control over their time (remotework hubs, flexible schedules, third
structured input from local communities(especially historically marginalized improved air quality, better land useoutcomes). new fields, and grow toward theirpotential over the life course, including places), recognizing time wealth as partof prosperity. Integrated
Julie Scotland 97229 Both Gravi AI Private Business and Corporate AI 1 - 20 people Business climate Getting rid of QSBS for Oregon founders is a huge hit. This is an incentive groups) in shaping big businessclimate decisions and incentiveGet QSBS back in place. Add more Investment and incentives for local All of the above, this decision should Would love to learn more about what is There should be incentives to support No NA NA NA mid-career transitions.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA measurement: build a dashboard thattracks how each tool (e.g., a new site orNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Make it really easy for local NA
ProfessionalServices Training &Enablement for local founders to take real risk and remain in Portland. Most founders gowithout salary initially to start their company. No retirement benefits, no incentives to keep SMBs here. Actuallytalk to the startup community before entrepreneurs that keeps them hereand incentivizes hiring. not have been made without discussingwith the startup and business available. I follow PDXstartupcommunity for local events and that has local businesses and to hire locally.There should be incentives for larger founders/businesses to get involvedwith helping other local
safety net for a long time. They put their own savings into it. Work round theclock. The entire value proposition of that risk was based on what a making decisions like this in the future. community in Oregon. been an incredibly helpful resource. Iam also open to getting involved if you businesses to retain and grow theiremployee base, there should be founders/businesses. The grantsystem right now is not easy to
successful outcome could look like under existing tax treatment. And theirincentive for success is good for the state through hiring and taxes. need AI educators for businesses intown or for government workers. incentives for larger businesses anduniversities to support startup understand and should be accessiblefor small businesses to more easily
Changing that retroactively fundamentally devalues the risk foundersalready took. And it doesn't just hurt founders - it will make it much harder to ecosystem. apply and it should prioritize bringing inas many local providers as possible.
recruit in-state talent to early-stage companies when their upside will beless too. When people decide where to reside and build businesses,
Oregon will not be on their list.consistently ignore small businesses. My business has been growing The Oregon government seems to
quickly, I am supporting many local organizations with education while alsobeginning to hire contractors and partner with folks in town to boost their
own businesses. But due to QSBS going away - I am actively consideringmoving out of state because I have multiple family members to help take
care of and the tax implications are too big to ignore. I have deep roots inOregon - business, family/friends, kids in school, history, etc. - the last thing
I want to do is move away but the potential financial impact is too large. Ifsomeone like myself (with such deep roots) is considering a move, I can
only imagine what this means to other current and potential founders andinvestors with less external incentives to stay. The QSBS removal may be a
one time financial gain that leads to a longterm financial downturn for thestate as local founders and local and external investors leave.
Thomas Walter 97401 Both Walter Custom Homes Inc.and Walter Development Private NA Residentialland 1 - 20 people Business climate City of Eugene has destroyed traditional single family construction. Remove difficult planning anddevelopment requirements Add more Flat, Buildable land in the first urbangrowth expansion in Eugene's history. Local Government, State Governmentpressure, and inforcment of the intent of not sure we have waited since 1972 foran expansion of land. I am not holding No idea No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
LLC Development and Home land that is flat and buildable into thesingle family residential urban growth the Urban Growth Boundary. Theefficient development... not the my breath.
Construction boundarty exclusion of housing types that don'tagree with city planners.
Constance Palaia 97527 Both Motel Del Rogue Non-profit Business andProfessional Hospitality 1 - 20 people Business climate TLT dollars used for things other than tourism Make sure TLT stays with tourism My business, my neighbors and all ofOregon will be more prosperous Legislature/local government TLT NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Chris Early 97844 Myself NA NA ServicesNA NA NA Workforce Public education funding Increased taxes on incomes over $1M. Funding for PK-16 funding at QEM Legislature A robust QEM Millionaires' taxes in Massachusetts No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon's competetiveness depends on Wealth%20Expands%20After%20Highe
levels without impacts to other socialservice spending. and Washington state. a well-educated populace, not just atrained workforce. Appropriate r%20State%20Taxes%20on%20High-Income%20Earners.pdf
investments in education need to comewithout sacrificing other needed social
services - housing, health care, etc.Education doens't need a larger piece
of the pie; the pie needs to be bigger tomeet the needs we face.
John Duggan 97530-0524 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Level the playing field. Far too many workers are making less than 3% oftheir CEOs salary. Set reasonable wage and earningsschedules so one person can not Stronger middle class, strongereconomy, less homelessness, more Legislature must work for ALL thepeople equally. Transition housing and regulatedworking environment. Minnesota No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We are at risk of losing the foundationof our State as more and more timber is NA
exploit twenty. hope. cut down and replaced with fast-growthmonocultures. The Dean of Forestry at
OSU has pointed out that Douglas Fircan be grown as the densest softwood
and should not be grown to compete inthe crowded worldwide softwood
Paul Maghiari 97305 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate We are in the bottom of being business friendly in Oregon. Small Provide better tax breaks for small We will start to see new businesses Local governments need to stop being These programs are designed to help Make it easy to do business in Oregon. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA market.If you are going to offer resources to the NA
businesses need a change. High taxes and ignorance will not work. business owners, get rid of property tax,payroll, and lower workers emerging and less empty/vacantbusiness properties. Small businesses greedy, taxation is not working and it isdriving good businessowners and minorities and native tribes only. I havefound that being outside of those Wyoming offers something similar tomy suggestions and just made most public, it shouldn't be based on thecolor of your skin. Meaning it should be
compensation insurance rates. should start seeing profits. families out of Oregon. categories doesn't benefit the middleclass. business-friendly state for 2026. a resource to everyone in thecommunity even white males in their
Margaret Graese 97327 Organization/Business Bear Mountain ForestProducts (Lignetics) Private Forestry andWood Products NA 21-100 people Business climate The Program is not economy wide, nor is it a conventional market-basedprogram. Through this program, Oregon will have the highest cost carbon I'd like to see an immediate pause tothe CPP (Climate Protection Program) Revising the cap and invest programwould: * invest money into state legislature and local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 40's.The current CPP compliance costs areexpected to EXCEED the actual cost of NA
compliance in North America yet among the lowest emitting states. implementation. CPP is leading tounprecedented increases in energy programs, overseen by the legislature *spur investments into clean tech vs natural gas by the second or thirdcompliance period. As noted
costs for residents and businessesacross Oregon. CPP is estimated to leakage * allocate revenues to actualGHG reductions, instead of the arbitrary, previously, the current cost for just ourtwo plants is $13K per month and if it
cost Oregon natural gas consumers$4.9 Billion over the 11-year period unregulated allocation of funds underthe current program * create a statutory continues to grow as expected, it couldlikely cause closure of the plants.
(2025- 2035). This figure doesn't evencapture increased costs for program that is on stable legal footing *link Oregon's program to Washington
transportation fuels and propane.Lignetics has 2 plants in Oregon and California, ensuring parity andconsistency among neighboring states
behind NW Natural and between thetwo plants, it is costing an additional
$13K per month ($156K annually) andthat doesn't account for the expected
cost increase. This charge is notmaking it economical to do business in
Arthur Gardener 97401 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth NA Oregon.NA NA NA NA NA Yes NA Population growth9 Economic growth is always based on NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
natural resources. Population growth isoutpacing available supply which are
becoming exponentially more difficult toobtain and to the detriment of the very
basic needs which people require:clean air, water, land. Consider more
can be self defeating; controllingcompetitive capitalism, growth, quality
Greg Ervin 97424 Both City of Cottage Grove Public NA Municipal 1000+ people Business climate Oregon's land use laws restrict the ability to expand our UGBs in a way we Streamline the ability to expand our A ready path to expand the city limits legislature NA NA No NA NA of our future.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
require to provide the opportunity to attract industry that can fuel theprosperity of our population. UGB or eliminate the UGB system alltogether. and grow our housing stock as well asindustrial land.
Stephen Green 97211 Both Vanport Studio Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Would love for the council to take on helping Business Oregon go from anoccasional, reactive transactional player in the business community to a A refreshed leadership team andreorganized focus of the agency from a A clear vision and North Star forBusiness Oregon with a leadership Starts with the governor taking actionand sending a signal that we will not be My businesses have never receivedfinancial or policy support from the state Buy local initiatives in California,Arizona, Louisiana and Minnesota. We No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Businesses work in monthly andquarterly increments so when Austin%20Needs%20Assessment.pdf
Services relationship based partner in the states business landscape where theyplay an active role and have authentic connections in community. collection of dated infrastructure andbusiness programs to becoming the team of experienced businessoperatives with real social capital and doing business as usual and hopingfor different outcomes. Once folks see so I don’t have one to mention here. need to prioritize spending as much inthe state as possible instead of funding presenting solutions make sure theyare broken down into these timeframes
state’s business “air traffic controltower” whose purpose is to center the experience in targeted industries, ruralregions and other public partners. that the governor is really committed tothis and that it’s not part of a reelection a ton of out of state firms to tell us whatto do here. AND that they have budgets attached tothem. We need to do a “Needs
needs of businesses across the state,has programs that augment/align with Oregon is nationally awarded andrecognized for its procurement campaign they will be more likely tostart engaging. Assessment” for the businesslandscape in Oregon (example
existing partner offerings and is thestate’s business cheer leader successes in spending money in thestate and supporting an inclusive attached). We have far too manyprograms and organizations that
nationally equipped with the data andinsights to speak to where we are at economy. Accountability is no longer adirty word and our leaders are just as continue to get funded but they aren’timpactful. We need to get a snap shot
and where we are headed. loud about sharing what didn’t work(and asking for help) as they are about of what is working and not workingalong with things we need to start and
the wins along the way. stop doing to create a betterenvironment for businesses here.
Vonnie Mikkelsen 97477 Both Springfield Area Chamber ofCommerce Non-profit NA Chamber ofCommerce - 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon’s most significant business climate challenge is the cumulativeimpact of what the Business Oregon study identified as “push factors,” a A temporary pause on new taxes andmajor regulatory mandates would Success would be demonstrated bymeasurable improvements in The Governor’s Office must lead. Withclear executive leadership and NA North Carolina’s Research Triangle is astrong model of innovation-driven Yes Workforce NA Oregon’s ability to recruit, develop, andretain a skilled workforce is one of the A coordinated, systems-level approachis needed, with clear accountability and Availability of actionable statewide datato guide decision-making and State Legislature and ExecutiveLeadership: Align education, workforce, Community College certificate and CTEprograms that are responsive to Massachusetts Education-to-Career(E2C) Data Systems, which connect No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA RE Workforce: Oregon’s employers arenot waiting for solutions, they are business_climate_survey_2025.pdf
800 MemberEmployers pattern that is consistently reinforced by our Chamber’s own businessclimate survey results across micro, small, and mid-sized employers. The provide an important signal that Oregonis committed to stabilizing its business predictability, coordination, andbusiness confidence. Specifically: • accountability at this level, stateagencies, the legislature, and local growth built on aligned public-privatepartnerships, higher education, and a most persistent and pressingchallenges facing our business stronger alignment between education,workforce, and economic development investmentsatisfaction with workforce readiness, Increased employer and economic development policy withclear accountability for outcomes, not industry needs: These programs areamong the most effective tools for education and workforce outcomes toinform policy and investment actively investing in their workforcethrough training, upskilling, and
in private,public, most frequently cited friction points are: • The cumulative layering of taxesand fees across local, county, and state levels • A regulatory environment climate. However, a pause alone is notsufficient. The more meaningful Reduced permitting timelines andgreater consistency across agencies • governments can more effectively aligntheir actions. Specifically, this would clear long-term economic strategy.That approach has informed the community. In Lane County, theSpringfield Chamber’s business strategies:accountability for employability skills •Establish statewide particularly in foundational and softskills Improved retention of graduates just funding levels. While investment inK-12 has increased, student outcomes connecting students to in-demandcareers and supporting regional Apprenticeship and workforcepartnership models in other states, workplace culture. However, theseefforts alone cannot overcome systemic
nonprofitsectors that is often perceived as inconsistent, complex, and difficult to navigate •Permitting delays and unpredictability Our Chamber’s 2025 Business solution is to adopt a comprehensive“fix-it” framework that includes: • A Clear alignment between economicdevelopment goals and tax and benefit from establishing a senior-levelrole within the Governor’s Office Southern Willamette Valley InnovationCorridor, which we are advancing in climate survey data over the past threeyears consistently identifies talent development, including fullimplementation of existing tools like from Oregon’s education and traininginstitutions have declined, signaling a need forstructural reform in how resources are workforce needs. As the stateconsiders future investments, there is which streamline employer participationand accelerate program development misalignment and cost pressures.be effective, the state’s approach must To
Climate Survey further underscores these concerns. When asked whatwould most improve the business environment, employers most frequently formal review of existing regulationsand permitting processes to improve regulatory policy • Implementation of astatewide competitiveness framework responsible for economiccompetitiveness and business climate collaboration with key regional partners.It demonstrates how coordinated recruitment and retention as THE topbusiness challenge for employers, only Oregon’s Employability Skillscurriculum •Streamline and modernize deployed and measured. Futuresolutions should prioritize efficiency, an opportunity to better align fundingmodels with outcomes. CTE and hands- State strategies that prioritize high-wage, high-demand industry growth, recognize that workforce challenges areinseparable from economic policy.
cited: public safety and street conditions (65%), state tax structure (35%),reduced regulations (34%), and expedited or easier permitting (31%). At its speed, coordination, and predictability •A cumulative impact analysis of state with transparent benchmarking andreporting • Stabilization or improvement alignment. This function would: •Coordinate across state agencies to regional efforts - supported by clearstate leadership and alignment across recently surpassed by inflation and costpressures. This challenge is not apprenticeship pathways, particularlyfor non-union and youth apprenticeship alignment with workforce needs, andlong-term economic competitiveness, on training programs are moreresource-intensive to deliver, yet often aligning workforce investments withbroader economic development goals Efforts to improve talent pipelines mustbe paired with strategies that enhance
core, the primary friction point is not any single policy, but the cumulativeand compounding effect of regulatory, tax, and community conditions - and local taxes, fees, and mandates •Clear alignment across state agencies in business sentiment, investmentactivity, and job growth • Fewer ensure consistency in permitting,regulatory, and economic development agencies and policymakers - can drivetalent, investment, and innovation. For isolated to workforce systems alone. Itis deeply connected to Oregon’s models, reducing time andadministrative burden for program without disproportionately increasingcosts on employers. State Agencies, produce strong employment and wageoutcomes. Oregon’s funding approach Oregon’s competitiveness as a place tolive, work, and do business. Without
largely shaped by public policy and its implementation - without a clearframework to assess their collective economic impact or competitiveness on economic development prioritiesand outcomes A key component of this instances of conflicting or duplicativepolicy actions that undermine stated implementation • Overseebenchmarking, performance metrics, Oregon, the takeaway is the importanceof sustained alignment, investment, broader economic competitiveness.High costs of doing business, rising approval •Align economic developmentand workforce strategies, ensuring Education Systems, and Employers (inpartnership): Oregon’s education (K-12 should recognize short-term credentialsand industry-aligned certificates as that alignment, we risk continuing totrain talent that ultimately leaves the
over time, or to inform better policy decisions. This cumulative burdencreates uncertainty that makes it difficult for businesses to plan, invest, and approach should be the establishmentof a statewide competitiveness economic development objectivesEqually important, employers would and public reporting oncompetitiveness • Serve as a and execution across partners, led byconsistent state-level leadership, to cost of living, and wage constraints limitemployers’ ability to compete for talent, policies support the attraction andretention of high-wage, high-demand and higher education), workforce, andeconomic development systems must successful outcomes, not solely degreecompletion, and ensure colleges have state, while struggling to attract theindustries we aim to grow.
grow, and is compounded by the absence of a clearly articulated statewideeconomic development vision and value proposition. The impact is real framework, including: • Annualbenchmarking against peer states on report a renewed sense that Oregon isa place where they can confidently consistent interface with the businesscommunity and regional partners • support innovation-based economicgrowth. particularly in traded-sector and high-demand industries that the state has industries •Invest in integratedlongitudinal data systems that track operate as a coordinated ecosystem,not in silos. This includes stronger the resources to scale these high-impact programs. Industry advisory
and measurable. Employers report increased compliance costs, delayedor foregone investment, and constraints on growth resulting in declining tax structure, regulatory burden, andpermitting timelines • A “no net new invest, grow, and compete. Identify and resolve policy conflicts orunintended cumulative impacts At its identified as priorities for long-termgrowth. What is the biggest barrier or individuals from K-12 throughpostsecondary education and into the alignment on curriculum andemployability skills, streamlined committees that meaningfully engageemployers in curriculum development
confidence and a measurable loss of competitiveness relative to peerstates. burden” expectation, where newrequirements are paired with core, success depends on having asingle point of accountability to ensure friction point in this area?•Misalignment across education and workforce •Support employer-ledtraining models, including grants and pathways into careers (includingapprenticeships), and meaningful Work-Based Learning (WBL) programs:Continued investment is important, as
simplification or reduction elsewhere •Defined performance metrics, such as that policy intent translates into real-world outcomes. workforce systems, particularly inpreparing students with foundational incentives for upskilling, on-the-jobtraining, and retention strategies employer engagement in programdesign and implementation. these programs create meaningfulconnections between students and
permitting timelines, cost ofcompliance, and business investment employability and soft skills•Decentralized education decision- employers. As implementation movesforward, there is an opportunity to
trends, with regular public reportingTogether, these steps would shift making, which creates inconsistencyand inefficiency in delivering workforce- strengthen coordination and regionalalignment to ensure scalability,
Oregon from incremental policy layeringto a more disciplined, outcomes-driven relevant outcomes at scale •Limitedpathways from education to particularly in rural and small metroareas. A more structured approach, with
Matthew Ward 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Low wages not keeping up with cost of living and inflation in Oregon, as approach ensuring that decisions areevaluated not only on intent, but onTax the 1% a higher rate, require large Less folks struggling paying for All of those. The Oregon Health Plan off the top of my head some of the tax No NA NA employment, especially inapprenticeship and youthNA NA NA NA dedicated resources and coordinatedoutreach, will help avoid duplicativeNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Less catering to developers, the rich NA
well as over taxation on middle and low income earners. corporations to pay their bottom tierworkers more than just a "living" wage. housing, food and health care.Corporations and the top tier 1% paying structures in Northern Europe showgood examples and out of State consultants, we needaction across the board on a number of
That term "living wage" is outdated andis not really a living wage for most more into the State and local well beingacross the board. Schools funded, important issues. People aredemanding to see where their hard
residents. roads repaired and up-kept, lesshomelessness, less addiction, better earned dollars are going when they canbarley afford to live here.
MARIE A HOBIZAL 97056 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Funding for training programs that provide support services while in While there are community-based environment to live in.For one thing more robust funding for Well it's already started in the Oregon has fantastic services available The work Source system in Washington No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Talk to the people that are actually NA
training. I work in workforce development programs and it is more andmore difficult with the way the grants are written. Grants for training usually organizations that do provide minimalsupport it would be better if it was all schools, higher education, trainingfacilities and workforce development community, just lack of funding is themain issue. But it has to be all inclusive they are just underfunded, all of theprograms. is very cohesive. My workforcedevelopment program has visited there doing the work, talk to the people thatare actually using the services and
have very little funding for staff and no funding for support services whichare paramount for people who obviously are in need of help and built into the grant. The fact that traineeshave to go to multiple different agencies grant funding. Including a livable wagefor staff and support services for the it has to start top down which is hugeand I don't know if it's very realistic. are several of their sites multiple times.But innovation is one of the things that listen .
assistance. goes against the One Oregonphilosophy. The concept of having one people that are going through thetraining. It's counterintuitive to think that needs to happen because of all thechanges that are happening in our
application doesn't work it's not workingeither the system needs to be changed people who are on unemployment havethe ability to go back and forth and live world in regards to the work that we doand how we do it. AI, robotics, specialty
or we need to kind of look at more of amore holistic system where people go there everyday lives and be able tomake ends meet, especially in this that jobs, so much is happening so fastthat staff can't keep up with training and
one place and actually receive all theservices that they need kind of like the economy in 2026. I understand that a lotof people have problems with this but it's on our own we have to learn how todo everything we have to know
OneStops concept. Funding for staff thatis equal to the pay that they should be you have to realize that if we don't trainour workforce our young people everything which is an immeasurabletask. Looking at current systems is
receiving because of all of theirexpertise. Looking at things in a more especially with all the dramatic changesthat are going to happen within our great but we have to look to the futurewe have to have more input from the
human manner instead of corporate aswe're seeing right now with Portland workforce it's going to be a disaster forthe whole country, if not the World. people that are on the creative side ofwhat's happening in order to get even a
Community College. Realizing that wehave to put Community back in slight heads up. I hate to say iteverything is too slow when. The
everything that we do that is governmentbased. I realized that is an enormous government is so thick by the time thedepartment of Labor approves a
task. discretionary Grant it's a year maybetwo years before we're able to
implement it and actually help peopleit's too long. Think of how many people
have already fallen through the crackshow many people are out on the street
Nicholas Hara 97218 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Many businesses grow from sole proprietors to small businesses. The tax breaks or incentives for sole Significant (e.g 15%) increase in sole Legislature - reform tax structures and Locally, our Preschool for all program is working two and three jobs just to makeNA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I'm concerned that the panel might NA
state's tax and incentive infrastructure is poorly designed to help upliftfreelancers and small businesses. Further, in a post-pandemic world, proprietor or small businesses withoutbrick and mortar locations. Challenge proprietor and small businesses.Significant shift from sole proprietors to transit. Local governments - provideeducation and disburse funds an enormous benefit to our family andmy neighbors. Further, Portland's PCEF overemphasize large employers andemployers in industries that are dying,
there are few resources and incentives for people who work from homewhich has many benefits. funds or state-created incubators.Deductions for work from home small small business with one or moreemployees. Large businesses reduce funds have been used to visibly improveour neighborhood resilience and quality. externalize their community impacts, orsimply do not represent a vision of a
businesses, including equipment,energy efficiency, and construction. return to office policies, reducing trafficand lightening road maintenance sustainable and prosperous Oregon.Economics is not an objective reality but
Fees or tolls for large employers thatmandate return to office where they burdens. Externalized costs are morefully accounted for and generate green an ethos through which we create theengine of our future. A backwards
would otherwise not be required (e.g.tech companies). That revenue would industry. looking fear of losing the hangers on,extractive, and greedy will only result in
go back to transit and environmentalbuckets. Cost of living adjusted tax policies that reflect that ethos.Employment is not prosperity. A citizenry
brackets. Regular audits of largeemployers for tax evasion. Increase the comfortable to do what they want andlive the way they hope while taking
gas tax to adjust with inflation AND pricespikes Create local transportation tax advantage of the vast beauty of thisstate is prosperity.
based on the fourth power law andutilize those funds to eventually replace
the gas tax. For all employers asignificant tax or fine, in excess of the
saved cost, based on the number ofemployees using state or federal
benefits (e.g. SNAP). This is meant as away to force employers to internalize
what essentially amounts to a statesubsidy of low wages.
DeBoer Alan 97520 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate To many bills passing in sessions and interpretation for implementing(agencies writing the rules). Lack of agencies to manage and provide Limit Bills at each session, allow staffto contact elected officials to combine All agencies managing budget andworkloads well. Putting problems Governor, President of the Senate,Speaker of the House and Department Basics lots! Yes Workforce NA allow managers and employees towork together for success Leadership oregon as it used to be, stop the politics elected officials that are in leadershiproles, respecting the minority Basics Lots, Stop the inheritance tax Yes Tools for growth Less tools, less bills. Bettermanagement Leadership and listen to youremployees. Let the be part of the Oregon as it used to be all, especially top management NA take the best and move that directions,stop micromanaging, include the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stupid name when we should all befocused on Prosperity. there is no NA
common sense similar bills. Senate President andHouse Speaker to exercise more solving appointment people oncommittees. Listen to the minorities heads. solution minority make Oregon a place thatleads in Education, Health care and substitute for Great Leadership whichwe need to instill at all levels and don’t
control to dispose of bills. Departmentheads need to take control of agencies and include. Stop with the we don’t havemoney and manage. Union control is leadership. Don’t force businesses toleave and owners to retire in another micromanage but hold accountable.Pers is actually doing well and is
and manage for success. Most billspassed should not be needed if way to evident And may not berepresenting their members. We need state. funded, stop the panic.
Directors were doing their job.Govenors office should sit in on leadership! Bad management in anybusiness is very evident with problems,
Bargaining especially education and bemore involved with direction of state. great leadership is invisible aseverything is running smooth. Our state
is failing in almost all departments withthe exception of SAIF
Todd Greco 97210 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth overall, living in multco is punishing. between PERS sucking all of themoney out of our coffers and class warfare being the order of the day, it's I'd love multco to be folded into Portlandand reduce the overhead/mixed less in-fighting, and more progress.also, let's stop calling people that make local governments need to step up, butit's the job of the state government to I love that we have a good light railsystem and bike first mentality. I hate Other cities have simply declaredbankruptcy and started over, wiping the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
hard to want to stay here. responsibilities that we see. I'd love tofind a solution that stands up against 125k millionaires. note that the current overlaps are doingus no good and are actively holding us that we constantly are behind the 8 ballbecause of PERS. slate. It feels like that's an option at thispoint.
our judicial system that reducespayouts to the ~300+ people that get back.
more than 100k from PERS.
Nancy Kirkpatrick 97005 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Prioritizing the state projects that are absolutely necessary for promotingoverall stability in our communities. The biggest barrier to this is how to Tax the wealthy to raise funds for I5bridge and infrastructure projects Projects to improve lives in Oregonwould be well underway, showing that Yes, every sector participates. Unitedfront. Solidarity for the common goal of Healthcare Lower real estate taxes and start taxingnon food and non medical/OTC No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
fund the projects without making life harder for those with the least income. elsewhere in the state. No new taxes foranyone making $75K or less. Oregonians take care of the state andpopulous. state prosperity. purchases. There’s a reason why mostother states have sales tax to support
their infrastructure. It is clear that wecannot continue to rely on federal
support; this makes us too vulnerable.
Tony DeFalco 97232 Organization/Business Latino Network Non-profit NA Socialservices 101-500 people Workforce Investment in Latine community and businesses. This is the fastestgrowing population in our state. It is the youngest part of our population. A statewide strategy to acceleratesuccess in workforce readiness and Well-resourced (multi-year funded,strong infrastructureLatine-led and Legislature (investment), BusinessOregon, Worksystems, local None are delivering at the level needed.Most lack the capacity to engage deeply NA Yes Tools for growth NA Lack of representation in Governor'soffice, agency leadership, legislative Existing leadership to recognize andprioritize building leadership across At minimum, recognition of the problem.Better: strong representation inside Governor's office NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Council is very limited in its expertisefrom BIPOC communities, in particular NA
Recent data shared by NALCAB (nalcab.org) indicates that the Latinepopulation is the most important population to serve in workforce business supports for Latinecommunities. This should be paired trusted workforce and businessdevelopment programs that serve governments, ed/training partners in Latine and BIPOC communites. Mostlack funding leadership, local governmentleadership (especially outside of Metro sectors. governor's office and cabinet. Best:active decision-making and innovation Latine community. This should berectified immediately. Very limited in
readiness and business development investments. with strategies for BIPOC and tribalcommunities that rectify historical and Latine populations across the state. and valley areas) leading to limitedconsideration of Latine communities opportunities inside state governmentand leadership. expertise from community partners.
current under-investment. and non-existent for us/by us policy,program and investment development
Rachel Roberts 97213 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Unsheltered homelessness Get all into shelter — make Portland a No more urban campers or public drug The governor and state legislature THe Portland mayor is doing a good job Look at Boston and Massachusetts No NA NA at all levels.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
right to shelter city , crack down on allpublic drug use. Do not allow use but otherwise I see ineffectivene andcounterproductive measures only
organizations to hand out use supplies.Increase mental health treatment to
Match successful states.
Lauren M McCartney 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I appreciate that multi-millionaires and billionaires like founders andleaders of NIKE, Columbia Sportswear, and Dutch Brothers love Oregon Exploring various options for increaseson taxes for large multi-million and A taxation plan for multi-million andmulti-billion dollar businesses so that The legislature and local governmentsneed to act to make this happen. The disconnect from federal taxes,Oregon Child Tax Credit, support for In 2024, Massachusetts passed a 4%tax on people who make over $1 Million. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA In regards to education, educators inthe classroom need to be at the table NA
and have headquarters or many business locations in Oregon. Oregon isfriendly to these business, which is great. The problem is that the tax multi-billion dollar companies couldhelp the state of Oregon close funding education in Oregon doesn't struggle tofind funding, along with other services first-time homebuyers, rentersprotections, considering universal Washington State just passed a tax onthe wealthy. Mamdani in New York is and have their voices heard and used inreal ways when making policy
breaks they get don't financially and socially benefit the people of Oregonwho pay their fair share of taxes. gaps in vital services like education,housing, and access to food that will like affordable housing, access to food,universal childcare, and transportation childcare for Oregon making progress on a variety of issuesthat support working people in New decisions for education. Right now, thevoices of educators are not a part of the
have huge benefits for the people ofOregon. systems. York. solutions being proposed by the states.
