E X E C UT IV E S U M M A RY
Convene a nonpartisan, stakeholder-balanced, tax reform working group to develop a long-
term reform proposal that can be implemented by 2029, in advance of the expiration of federal
State and Local Tax (SALT) provisions. The group should consider how to restructure the Corporate
3
Activity Tax, enable local governments to evaluate options to increase stability with common sense
property tax funding, and rebalance the personal income tax structure to maintain progressivity and
reduce effective rates for all income brackets.
Establish enforceable statewide permitting timelines and guardrails (a “shot clock”) by
requiring agencies to approve or deny complete permit applications within clear statutory timelines,
4
while maintaining environmental and safety standards.
Reduce regulatory and administrative burdens by 20% by 2029. Remove outdated and
duplicative regulations, which will improve government efficiency and should reduce government
5
spending. The state should also establish a regulatory structure to ensure reforms support economic
growth while maintaining protections for public health, essential services, and the environment.
Adopt a market-based Cap and Invest program for greenhouse gas emissions. Upon
implementation, the Governor should repeal the Climate Protection Program. Align Oregon’s program
with labor standards consistent with California and Washington’s Cap and Invest approaches: auction
6
revenues allocated for public works and infrastructure should require family sustaining wages, registered
apprenticeship participation, and adherence to nondiscrimination and workforce inclusion standards.
Establish a dedicated and recurring site readiness and infrastructure fund of $250 million
per biennium. Oregon cannot compete for jobs or build enough housing without a reliable supply
7
of development-ready land. Using bonding authority tied to future economic growth, the state should
accelerate investment in sites to prepare them for development.
Modernize statutes and state policies governing land intended for industrial and business
growth to reflect site suitability and ensure an adequate supply of development-ready sites to support
8 target industries. Clear standards for industrial site readiness, including site size, configuration,
natural features, road and other infrastructure access, power sufficiency, and location should ensure
consistent interpretation across jurisdictions.
Establish a Governor’s Cabinet of Economic & Talent Development to align state agencies
around measurable economic, education, and workforce outcomes. Lead and implement a statewide
9
Talent Alignment Strategy to establish ambitious statewide goals tied directly to Oregon’s long-term
competitiveness while finding opportunities to streamline and consolidate.
Strategically align higher education funding with West Coast states to strengthen Oregon’s
workforce, research, innovation, and industry partnerships in high-growth sectors. Also, commit $20
10
million per biennium to the University Innovation Research Fund (UIRF) to leverage federal investment
and commercialization opportunities.
- 7 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
