Steve Deacon 97232 Both Deacon Development, LLC Private NA Real EstateDevelopmen 1 - 20 people Business climate Unfortunately, I believe that Oregon's ranking of 47th for businessfriendliness is well-earned. Portland ranks 49th for corporate taxation; this We should analyze our corporate taxstructure, compare it to other locales More businesses would want to moveor expand here. We would no longer Portland is still an attractive place to be,so I'm convinced that employers will Continued support of our naturalresources; respect for and support of Fix PERS; Idaho has fewer regulatoryrequirements and lower taxes which is No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Portland and Oregon should make surethat we don't let our egos get in the way NA
t was achieved by decades of an attitude that Portland/Oregon is so great wecan do anything to business and they will keep coming. We need to take a and design an approach that iscompetitive and welcoming. This will rank almost last in corporate taxes andbusiness friendliness. follow if the state and localgovernments start acting like they want law and order; don't try to restart thegovernor's Project Labor Agreement attracting people and businesses. of looking elsewhere for new and goodideas. We've proven that we don't have
more pragmatic/business-like approach to our spending and expectations.An example is our K-12 education; we have a high cost/student with low be painful in the short run, but beneficialin the future. We also need to be more us here instead of us feeling like theenemy. policy for all state construction work (it'smuch more expensive and unfair to a monopoly on all of the good ideas.
performance result; this isn't acceptable. frugal with how our money is spent; actlike we have a limited supply. open-shop companies andemployees); achieve some bi-
partisanship in the state legislature(stop defending your political turf and
start thinking of what's best for thecitizens and businesses).
Nathaniel Palmer 97034 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes in Multnomah county Repeal the PFA and Metro Housingtaxes Employees don't want to be in PDXwhen it saves so much money to have Local Gov/Legislation Many good housing productionprograms in place. But people don't Incentives for businesses to come tothe state and to build here. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The state estate tax is the lowest in thenation. I know LOTS of people are just NA
your business elsewhere. Need toconvince people to come back and want to develop when the businessenvironment is poor. That needs to be fed up and leaving the state now thatthey are in retirement age. This
taxes are the #1 obstacle right now. fixed first before housing solutions willbe workable. contributes to significantly less incometax revenue as they leave early in
retirement years.
henry fields 97141 Organization/Business fisheries Private Outdoor Gear andApparel NA 101-500 people Tools for growth nn nn nn nn nn nn No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Kylie Nichols 97603 Both ON 140 Feed & Seed Inc Private NA AgricultureRetail 1 - 20 people Business climate One of the biggest barriers facing rural businesses right now is the lack ofconsistent consequences for theft and property crime. Small businesses in To improve Oregon’s business climatefor rural communities, the state should Success in the next 2–3 years wouldmean rural businesses seeing a Oregon State Legislature, Governor andState Executive Branch, County District Well, there are some grants availablebut as a small business owner, I don't NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
rural communities already operate with limited staff and tight margins, andrepeated theft directly impacts our ability to stay viable and serve our local strengthen accountability for theft andproperty crimes that directly impact noticeable reduction in repeat theft andproperty crimes. Stronger accountability Attorneys (who are significantlyunderstaffed to handle the volume they have time to fill out and submit a grant. Ialso do not have the means to hire a
agricultural community.their best to respond, investigate, and hold offenders accountable. Our local law enforcement works hard and does small businesses. While local lawenforcement is making strong efforts to and meaningful consequences for first-time and repeat offenders should lead already have due to funding at thecounty level), and Oregon Courts and grant writer to do it for me.
However, the broader system often returns the same individuals to thecommunity without meaningful consequences. This creates a cycle where investigate and charge offenders, thebroader system needs to ensure that to fewer incidents targeting smallbusinesses and agricultural retailers. Judges.
repeat offenders continue committing crimes, sometimes escalating tomore serious offenses over time. When businesses repeatedly those efforts result in meaningful andconsistent consequences. Policies Business owners should feel confidentthat when crimes occur, the system will
experience theft with little deterrence, it creates frustration and financialstrain for small rural operations that are already balancing regulatory should prioritize clear penaltiesbeginning with the first offense and respond in a way that deters futureoffenses. This would be reflected in
requirements and rising costs. Addressing this issue by strengtheningaccountability and ensuring consistent consequences for repeat offenders escalating consequences for repeatoffenders. Establishing stronger fewer repeat offenders cycling throughthe system and fewer businesses
would significantly improve the business climate for rural communities andhelp protect the small businesses that support Oregon’s farmers, deterrents early can help preventindividuals from repeatedly targeting experiencing ongoing theft from thesame individuals. Success would
ranchers, and local economies. small businesses and escalating tomore serious crimes. Consistent also mean that rural businesses spendless time and resources dealing with
enforcement and accountability wouldnot only protect businesses but also theft and loss prevention and more timefocusing on serving their customers
help reinforce community safety andtrust in the system. Additionally, the and supporting Oregon’s agriculturaleconomy. Ultimately, a safer and more
state should work with rural businessowners, law enforcement, and local predictable environment would allowsmall businesses to invest, grow, and
governments to develop policies thatreflect the realities of rural continue operating as essential parts oftheir communities.
communities. Ensuring that lawssupport timely prosecution and
meaningful consequences for propertycrimes would help reduce repeat
offenses and create a safer, morestable environment for businesses that
Jim Labbe 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Affordability crisis impacting working families- particularly relating to child serve Oregon’s agricultural economy.Universal free statewide pre-school To see the Oregon launch a statewide Governor and Legislature can pass The Oregon Health Plan is a building Washington State has a real estate No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I focused on the Workforce NA
care, health care & housing- is a major drag on equitable growth in Oregon.We can't pay for this with regressive taxes or even inflating property values paid for by progressive taxation. pre-school for all program. Refer aUniversal Health Care program to the legislation or refer it to voters. bloc for Universal Healthcare. transfer tax. We should remove the pre-emption for local governments in the Development section in the previouspage but I think my ideas apply to all
which is a key driver of the housing affordability crisis. While property taxreform could help, there is no avoiding taxing more affluent Oregonians the voters. Established a Statewide fund forsocial housing. Pass enabling Oregon Constitution. The funds couldhelp pay for a social housing in Oregon. three given that the affordability crisis inchild care, health care, and housing all
way Washington State is starting to do. legislation for social housing. impact the prospects for equitablegrowth in Oregon.
NA 97239 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate excessive taxes, both business and for higher-earning people reduce the negative impacts in theseareas to help stop driving higher- Any improvements in our businessclimate whether that's from job growth, Governor(!), Legislature and localgovernment NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I hope they will address or at leastacknowledge the disconnect between NA
earning people and businesses out ofOR, particularly PDX/Multnomah County business locations/expansions or alegitimate ranking that doesn't sugar- what the Governor announced shewanted to do for the economy before the
coat our issues. 26 session and what actually happenedin that session, which was in many
ways exactly counter to the Governor'swords.
Martha Neustadt 97703 Both V4 Final, Inc. Private Technology NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Changing the culture in Oregon to accept the fact that technologyadvancement is good for the state and entire economy. One of the reasons Stop putting out messages that jobs intechnology, software, and AI (together A state in which forestry workers,plumbers, teachers, and software It can start with Business Oregon. There are none. That's kind of theproblem. Our company is an enterprise California. I know it's trendy to hateCalifornia, but they are the fourth largest No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
it is so hard to find both talent and capital in Oregon is because we, as astate, seem to have pushed the narrative that technology - and particularly with the capital and high salaries thatcan result) are paths to moral failure. A developers are all consideredappropriate professions for Oregonians. B2B SaaS company - there are noresources for us. economy in the world.
technology executives - are somehow evil incarnate, simply waiting to bebillionaires so that they can destroy the world. person's ethics and moral principlesare not tied to their profession.
Cody Phoenix 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Leadership focus Truly fund education and strong arminvestments. The governor should be Gaps in funding are closed by taxing thewealthy of this state at a fair rate and legislature, local governments.Employers are self interested and Trimet free days and preschool for all The plans and actions being taken bythe current New York City Mayor Yes Tools for growth NA Infrastructure issues for travel and living. Fully fund and fill the holes of publictransit and develop a better system to People in and around the cities ofOregon do not need to be able to afford legislature, local governments. Fundingand legislation needs to be passed for Rent buy downs and the Trimet system In Ney York City, they are working tomake the buses fast and free, freezing No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Implementing a wealth tax. Those wholeave have been shown to be those NA
fighting against the wealthy's attemptsdo kill universal programs like funding/championing programs thatguarantee a future. Our educational should be incentivized to care about thelocal economy and the working class Mamdani are proving to be useful andaffective. His polling is phenomenal make and fill socialized housing. cars, gas or insurance in order to work,and those who work in the cities can these holes in budgets need to be filledand legislation needs to be passed to rents for the many who are near beingor who are being evicted and who do not pay taxes in the first place.We have people like Phil Knight who
preschool for all and not allowingcompanies to build server farms that system and housing affordability arebreaking and guarantee that Oregon are protesting, striking and using everylever they can to help affect change. Its and he has been able to push throughlife changing policies at speeds I didn't afford to live in these cities. lower the cost of rent and cost of land indense living environments such as the developing city owned groceries so thatpeople in the city and live, eat and work can become wealthy in part throughOregon, does not pay a reasonable
affect an areas water, electricity andhealth without massive taxes since may only become a place to retire to. now up to those in elected power tolisten and act. know were possible. cities. in the city. share in taxes and will use his massivewealth to influence and buy elections.
these farms do not produce jobs, orrevenue for the state be it taxes on land We want people that will protect ourfuture and our children's future to lead.
(if we continue to cut taxes) or taxes onlabor since very few jobs are created.
Emily Hartlerode 97478 Both Oregon Folklife Network, asemi-independent division Public NA Arts andCulture 1 - 20 people Business climate Lack of long-term revenue stability to support public services and economicgrowth in the Creative Economy. Increased staffing and funding levels toour established Arts and Culture office Oregon's Arts and Culture fundinglevels are caught up with inflation and Legislators need to hear themessage/Arts and Culture need robust Oregon Cultural Trust tax credit; OregonArts Commission grantmaking Minnesota and Washington state (orperhaps just City of Seattle?) have an No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
of the Museum of Naturaland Cultural History at the of Business Oregon would improve andexpand existing mechanisms for cost of living (improved from 39th in thenation); Arts Education is restored as a access to the impact data and capacityto analyze and report it; Local arts tax that support a robust Arts andCulture sector.
University of Oregon channeling resources that have amultiplier effect in economic growth basic right for K-12 learners; andbipartisan recognition of Oregon's governments/chambers need to reportthe impact; Adjacent sectors
across the state. Creative Economy as a backbone ofcommunity prosperity. (Education, Tourism, DEQ, etc.) needopportunity to network for collaboration.
Avery Jesmer 97527 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce I would like to see our legislators focus on building strong relationshipswith the key employers in our state, rather than proposing and Listen to the business owners in thestate. Provide support instead of Business growth in Oregon and newjobs created statewide. Incentives for Legislators partnering with businesses. Get rid of some of the state programsso you can stop crippling businesses NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
implementing legislation which drives them away. Government regulationsuch as continued involvement in wage control (continued minimum wage legislating everything under the sun. employers who have left to return. Donot make the tax environment so and taxpayers with some of the highesttaxes in the nation.
increases), implementation of poorly planned and executed programs suchas Paid Leave Oregon, etc. make employers want to leave our state, and damming that businesses cannot stayhere.
those who do not leave, are unable to allow the free market and the facetsof capitalism to work their magic, meaning that employers end up fighting
the state instead of competing against one another to be desirableemployers.
Jerry Shriner 97015 Both Met-Tek, Inc Commercialheat treatment Public Metals andMachinery NA 21-100 people Business climate Taxes & energy cost Would like to see lower taxes for theworking class, lower energy tax/ cost. Being able to afford to grow and providemore jobs. Legislatures, and local government. None unknown. Oregon needs to come upwith it's own plan for the people of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If all these new taxes and changes gointo effect, it will cause many Oregon NA
Oregon and not follow neighboringstates. business to leave the state to find moreaffordable avenues.
Kristen Helton 97405 Organization/Business Quality Care Connections Public Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Workforce My publicly funded agency supports the Lane County child care and earlylearning workforce—the workforce behind Oregon’s workforce. Early A meaningful solution to the child carecrisis requires shifting how child care is In two to three years, success wouldmean a more stable and sustainable Achieving meaningful change in thechild care system will require Several Oregon programs and policiesare critically important to sustaining the Several promising models from otherstates could help strengthen Oregon’s No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA DELC has stretched its resourcesacross too many state-level NA
Services learning and care professionals are often underpaid, overworked, andunder-supported by the communities they serve. The field is made up financed and supported. Child care isessential workforce infrastructure, yet child care system for both providers andfamilies. Child care programs would be coordinated action across multiplesectors. State policymakers must play a child care system and should continue.The Employment Related Day Care child care system. One approach isVermont’s creation of a dedicated, long- partnerships, often without sufficientcoordination between agencies. This
primarily of women, many of whom are low-income earners and representa wide range of cultures and backgrounds. At the same time, child care is the cost is largely borne by families,making it unsustainable for both operating at or near full enrollmentbecause subsidy programs such as central role by increasing publicinvestment in early learning and program is one of the most essentialsupports, helping low- and moderate- term funding stream for child carethrough Act 76 (Vermont 2023 Child lack of alignment creates significantlogistical challenges for CCR&R staff
extremely expensive to operate and increasingly out of reach for manyfamilies. Programs cannot raise wages to support teachers’ cost of living providers and parents. A more effectiveapproach would treat child care as a Employment Related Day Care wouldbe accessible to more families and improving subsidy systems such asEmployment Related Day Care so that income families afford child care whileallowing providers to receive reliable Care Bill), which established astatewide payroll tax to significantly and early educators who are expectedto navigate multiple systems,
without raising tuition, which many families simply cannot afford. Withrecent decreases in funding and reduced access to ERDC subsidies, shared public and economicinvestment, similar to K–12 education. reimburse providers at rates that betterreflect the true cost of care. Early reimbursement rates better reflect thetrue cost of providing quality care and payments for the care they provide.Continued investment in wage expand child care subsidies andincrease payments to providers. This requirements, and points of contact. Tobe most effective, DELC should
programs are struggling to fill slots, losing critical revenue, and in somecases facing closure. Without affordable child care—even with ERDC This includes increasing public fundingto cover the true cost of care, ensuring educators would experience modestbut meaningful wage increases and more families can access assistance.Local governments and regional initiatives such as Oregon EarlyEducator Awards is also vital, as these model recognizes child care asessential workforce infrastructure and prioritize stronger coordination andconsider centralizing more funding and
assistance—many parents are unable to work and must instead rely onother state-funded social services to meet basic needs. The current system subsidy programs such asEmployment Related Day Care improved workplace stability, helpingreduce staff turnover and program leaders can help by prioritizing childcare as critical community programs help address the long-standing issue of low compensation for distributes the cost across employersand employees rather than placing the implementation at the regional level. Bydirecting resources through
is not sustainable for providers, families, or communities. Something mustchange to better support the child care industry and the families who reimburse providers at rates thatsupport living wages, and expanding closures. More employers andcommunity partners would recognize infrastructure, supporting facilitydevelopment, convening partners, and early educators and support workforceretention. Additionally, Oregon’s burden primarily on families.effective strategy comes from New Another CCR&Rs—organizations that alreadyhave deep relationships and
depend on it. eligibility so more families can accessassistance. At the same time, child care as essential workforceinfrastructure and begin contributing to integrating child care into economicdevelopment and workforce strategies. investment in coordinated early learningsystems through the Early Learning Mexico, which created a permanentearly childhood funding stream through infrastructure within theircommunities—the state can reduce
employers and the broader businesscommunity must be engaged as solutions through partnerships,investments, or policy support. Families Employers and the businesscommunity also have an important role, Hubs has been valuable forstrengthening partnerships across the New Mexico Early Childhood TrustFund. This fund supports expanded administrative complexity and ensurethat supports, training, and technical
partners, recognizing that theirworkforce depends on reliable child would have greater access to affordablecare, allowing more parents to recognizing that reliable child caresupports their workforce and exploring health, education, and family supportsystems at the local level. Programs child care assistance, wage increasesfor early educators, and long-term assistance reach early educators moreefficiently and effectively.
care. Strategies such as employercontributions, public–private participate in the workforce. Overall, theearly learning sector would be on a path ways to contribute throughpartnerships, funding initiatives, or that support professional developmentand quality improvement—such as system stability by dedicating a portionof state revenues to early childhood
partnerships, and regional investmentfunds could help stabilize the industry. toward greater financial sustainability,with providers, families, businesses, employee benefits that support childcare access. Education and training coaching, training, and technicalassistance offered through the state’s programs.implemented policies that support early Some states have also
Strengthening business supports forproviders, expanding workforce wage and public agencies working together tosupport a stronger child care system. partners—including communitycolleges, universities, and workforce Child Care Resource & Referralnetwork—are also key to helping educators who have young childrenthemselves. In these states, early
supplements, offering shared servicedelivery options, and investing in agencies—must continuestrengthening pathways into the early providers build sustainable, high-qualityprograms. Continuing these educators are automatically eligible toreceive child care subsidies so their
sustainable program operations wouldalso help ensure that early educators learning profession by expandingtraining opportunities, credentials, and investments helps stabilize the childcare workforce, supports families’ children can attend the program wherethey work. A similar approach in Oregon
Staci Calkins 97504 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Oregon has a low journeyman to apprentice ratio. This grid locks our can remain in the field while familiesgain access to affordable, high-qualityHigher Journeyman/apprenticeship Shorten waitlist for apprenticeship professional development for earlyeducators. Finally, child care providers,Legislature needs to address most of ability to work, and strengthens thebroader economy.ASPIRE at the HECC is great. through Employment Related Day Carewould help stabilize the workforce byTexas always seems to be attracting No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
workforce system to get folks into trade/apprenticeship type jobs. Also ourcurrent higher ed system is disjointed. We should have one university ratio. Unify our university systems.Greater accountability and support to programs and ensuring Oregonworkers stay in Oregon and not go to this AND Governors Office. workers.
systems to better serve those going to college. Finally we need to ensureour local work force development boards are high performing. LWDB. Greater licensure reciposity forjobs that require a license. Idaho or Washington where the ratio ishigher. Less administrative burden and
greater transparency in educationalroutes for Oregon students. Routine
evaluation of LWDB. Oregon becomesa state where out of state doctors,
therapist, teachers consider moving tobecause licensure barriers aren’t a
“thing” when considering a move.
Explore The Dalles 97058 Organization/Business Freebridge Brewing Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Labor. The shortage of it. The difficulty in processing payroll for smallbusinesses, the taxes on small businesses. The hardships the many I really don't know. Stop adding things tothe payroll burden for starters. It's A larger footprint - allowing us to serveore customers and adequate staff to federal governments, legislature, localgovernment, the banks - schools I'm not sure if the SBDC are SBA areconsidered state organizations, but they I'd love to see Oregon take on a moreWashington State approach to small No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If something isn't done to buoy smallbusiness in Oregon (I'm lumping small NA
regulations and mandates that make doing business in Oregon as a smallbusiness so difficult to navigate. become so difficult to process payrollthat accountants don't even want to accommodate the gests, and ourproducts being re-sold in wide (sending people who have appropriatesocial skills. ? The "adults" coming are a god send. Also, we have been thebenefactor of a couple of timely and well businesses. The climate on that side ofthe river (we coordinate with several farmers in here too) There will be sucha terrible recession upon our fair state
tackle it. Payroll processing companieswon't even do all the steps and put it distribution with the ability to meet allour expenses with money lest for the from the education system today lackgeneral social and communication used grants. Are local OLCCrepresentative is top notch. Travel brewery/pub models from Washington)They seem to have a much more as we all close up shop.
back on the businesses to complete.Reduce taxes on small business. Allow prosperity of the owner (for once). skills for public facing employment. Oregon is an economic driver for us. Iwish OPB would get more funding. "relaxed" climate for doing business.
restaurants to pay a scaled minimumwage. It's making it too expensive for
people t eat out. Servers were nevermeant to "family wage" earning jobs.
Allow lending more widely forimprovements and growth. Excuse
COVID era long standing debt. If we'vemade it through all that and are still
here - shouldn't we get a break? Ipersonally know of at least two
businesses that closed shortly aftergetting 100,000's of dollars and never
paid it back We're penalized it feels forstaying open.
Jennifer Bold 97823 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Poverty wages and no benefits Negotiate better SIP Contracts Everyone's basic needs are met All of us Medicare, SNAP, WIC, safety nets forthe working poor Investing in people not systematicdraining of resources before they get to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We have to hold businesses to a higherstandard. Actually, we have to hold NA
Eric Durrin 97202 Both Bullseye Glass Company Private Metals and manufacturin 101-500 people Business climate Climate Protection Plan I would like the executive order The desire to tax energy would target governor and legisiature SAIF making worker compensation cost direct service dollarsCPP could be modified to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA EVERYONE to a higher standardNA NA
Machinery g rescinded. If the legislature wants tocraft a bill that accounts for small "waste" and allow businesses to avoidextra taxes if they are efficient energy effective accommodate best availabletechnology like in Washington state
businesses and "Best AvailableTechnology", then a better law could be users.
enacted.
Patrick Benavides 97035 Organization/Business Tube forgings of America,Inc., Portland, OR Private Metals andMachinery NA 101-500 people Business climate The impact that OR's Climate Protection Program will have on businesses,organizations, institutions and consumers as the Program expands in the Start over....With a Program that is inline with what WA and CA are doing, See answer to previous question... Legislature along with affected parties(not organizations or PACs that As a industrial manufacturer nothingcomes to mind... WA and CA have adopted programs thatappear to be more focused on No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If the CPP is not modified, our companywill most likely have to sub-contract Climate%20Protection%20Program.pdf
next few years. that addresses the issue and utilizesthe funds received to incentivize users represent those parties) -Manufacturers, businesses, solutions...but there are many Statesthat have Programs that have worked or (from offshore) a semi-finishedcomponent representative of what we
of Natural Gas to invest in "real" carbonreduction investments. institutions, etc. that are impacted alongwith utilities and regulators... not worked. As have many EUcountries. OR should analyze what has would manufacture ("hot"-formed or"hot"-forged) using natural gas. That
worked and what has been scrapped... imported component would be"finished" by our company. The sub-
contracting of that portion of our "hot"manufacturing would result in a 20% to
25% reduction in our production workforce.
NA 97823 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Support for young families. It is extremely difficult in our rural area for youngfamilies. Coat of living is high, childcare costs even higher and good paying Working on affordable housing andchildcare. It would be wonderful for young mothersto have the ability to stay home with 0-3 This will have to be a group effort andwill impact all levels within our social NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
jobs are hard to come by. year olds. In today’s climate, concerningcost of living, this seems near systems. We are a team and need toact like it.
impossible. However, it is the best thingfor kids. I’d love to see better support for
young families through flexible workschedules, lower childcare costs, and
overall general affordability.
Jessika Scott 97470 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth he extreme scarcity and high cost of infant and toddler care (0–3 years old)in Douglas County, which is currently a "childcare desert." he "math Expand the state’s Employment-Related Day Care (ERDC) program to A measurable increase in the numberof licensed family-childcare home slots The Legislature must prioritizesustainable, permanent funding rather The Employment-Related Day Care(ERDC) subsidy remains essential, as Look at models like the "Tri-Share"childcare program (seen in states like Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
problem" for working families: In many cases, the cost of childcare for onechild consumes nearly an entire paycheck, effectively forcing parents—often increase income eligibility thresholdsand lower copays. Additionally, provide in rural counties, reduced waiting listsfor local families, and a higher than one-time grants. Department ofEarly Learning and Care (DELC) should do the resources provided by localChild Care Resource & Referral Michigan), where the cost of childcare issplit equally between the employer, the
mothers—to drop out of the workforce, which creates a long-term hit tohousehold income and career progression. Friction Point: The "missing direct state-level "start-up grants" or low-interest loans for in-home providers to percentage of parents reporting thatchildcare costs no longer exceed streamline the certification process fornew providers without compromising (CCR&R) agencies, which helpprospective providers navigate the employee, and the state government.This shares the burden and makes it
middle" in housing. There is a shortage of starter homes or mid-rangerentals, forcing families into unstable housing situations, which navigate the high costs of licensing,insurance, and facility safety 10–15% of their total household income. safety. Employers must recognize thatsupporting childcare is a workforce complex licensing landscape. manageable for everyone involved.
immediately impacts their ability to maintain steady employment. requirements. retention strategy, not just a socialservice.
Sandra Bishop 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Environmental protections and response to climate chaos. No businesscan operate without a stable and healthy environment. Stop pushing industrial, commercialand housing development onto working More local food and forest productsproduced locally (in Oregon). Governor and legislature have to stoperoding land use protections. Statewide land use system. Oregon is the gold standard for landuse protections. Keep it that way. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please assess the cost ofenvironmental degradation and NA
farm and forest lands. addressing climate change whenconsidering how to benefit businesses.
Study and compare the cost ofemployee turnover versus paying higher
wages upfront.
Jeremy Parker 97060 Organization/Business Oregon induction andthermal Private Metals andMachinery NA 21-100 people Business climate The price of Natural gas going up so high will cripple us Scrap it More business less regulation All of them None. I fell the state does not want ushere Not sure No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Tony Moran 97080 Organization/Business Oregon Induction andThermal Public Metals andMachinery NA 21-100 people Business climate CPP Get rid of it. The relief of financial strain that this taxpresents Legislature bonus depreciation on capitalinvestments. Unlike cap and invest programs instates such as CA and WA, the price of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
carbon is set by the DEQ rather thanbeing determined by a carbon market.
Consequently, the Oregon CPP willrepresent the most expensive
greenhouse gas regulatory program inthe nation. The following table shows
cost per ton pricing in North Americancarbon markets: Oregon CPP$129.00
Quebec $31.91 Connecticut,Washington$60.43 California &
Delaware, Maine, Maryland,Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New
Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, RhodeIsland, Vermont$20.05 British
Columbia$80.00
Kyle Fessler 97071 Both Woodburn Nursery &Azaleas Private NA Horticulture 101-500 people Business climate Climate Protection Program. It is dramatically escalating our natural gascosts. We are the largest greenhouse grower in the state, and natural gas Complete elimination of the CPPprogram in Oregon. Rollback of the CPP, as well as repealof Ag Overtime in Oregon. Legislature and the governor. Oregon Department of Agriculture is thelone bright spot in Oregon government. No Ag Overtime, no CPP, and federalminimum wage. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Salem has done very little to helpOregon businesses in the past few NA
is critical to keeping our plants alive through the winter. Escalating costsare detrimental to our ability to grow plants. Increasing labor regulations They give us the ability to ship plantsoutside of Oregon, bringing dollars decades. What is thought to helpemployees ends up harming both
are also detrimental to our ability to grow plants. Ag overtime regulationsare hurting our businesses and employees, decreasing their hours and back into the state. business and employees.
their income.
Ted Lehmann 98109 Organization/Business Large natural gas users inthe State of Oregon Private Metals andMachinery NA NA Business climate The CPP will literally bankrupt your industrial customer base in Oregon andleave small business/residential customers to cover their substantial Eliminate the CPP and promise currentOregon Businesses and companies You haven't lost any small to largeindustrials in the State and you have a Governor can executive order the CPPout of existence and then legislatively Chips Act was really helpful.Unfortunately, the CPP will cost the Electrification of everything in the shortterm is the wrong end goal. Not only No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The CPP at $132/Carbon Ton is themost expensive Carbon Tax in the NA
subsidization of both the electric and natural gas systems. you want to recruit that there will be aten year moratorium on Carbon taxes few of your biggest employerscommitting to large capital upgrades in the moderate Democrats need to teamup with Republicans to enact a same companies more than theycollected under that legislation. does the grid need twenty years ofupgrades to make that happen, the cost world. Canada just cancelled theirprogram that was priced at $80/Carbon
so we can ensure the health of ORIndustry. the State. One new large employerwould also be a great addition. moratorium on future legislation thatensures a long-term planning horizon will be astronomical. Focus on the lowhanging fruit. Electrification of Ton because it was unaffordable.cost of this has not hit end users but it The
to encourage companies to invest. passenger vehicles, for example,makes sense. Trucking is better will and there will be a massivebacklash. This could double utility bills
served in the short term with RNG.Leave industrials alone. They use so for Oregon households in five to tenyears. People are struggling with
much energy at scale that if there aresensible reductions strategies, they will affordability as is and to add anotherregressive tax to overburdened families
self-fund and make it happen. is cruel. Finally, the money collected inthis tax has no clearly defined spending
parameters and no legislativeoversight. There is not a state in the
country that taxes their citizens this wayand will nullify any of the other
programs designed to improveOregon's economy.
Dave Larecy 97470 Both Con-Vey and 7robotics Private Forestry andWood Products IndustrialAutomation 101-500 people Business climate Taxes, Regulations and Homelessness.about jobs or business growth. Pushing us out of state. If feels like Oregon does not care Leadership and legislation need tounderstand the effect on local A reduction of people on assistance orat poverty level and more manufacturing Governor and legislature - everyoneelse in southern Oregon is ready for the Great Question. I have a hard timefinding one that is helping Oregon Too many to count. This is a longerdiscussion than this survey Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
economies by having good paying jobsin the private sector, especially activity, leading to higher wages, betterlifestyle and more state revenue change Companies. I guess we have prettygood roads compared to other states.
manufacturing jobs. How do weeducate them? They should be
minimizing roadblocks for companiesto grow and higher more people in
Jason Brandt 97304 Both Oregon Restaurant & Private Food and Accommodat 1000+ people Business climate The Corporate Activity Tax (since its implementation in 2019) should be tied OregonEvaluate the constructs of the Corporate Each calendar year, the CAT exemption Legislature N/A N/A No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Lodging Association Beverage ions to inflation. The current exemption of $1 million in sales in the Year 2019 isnothing like $1 million in 2026 given food, labor, and operational cost Activity Tax, make sure the value of theexemption for $1 million in sales from increases before taxes are paid on allsales beyond that threshold in line with
escalations. 2019 catches up with how much theexemption should be in 2016 and make CPI.
sure its tied to CPI moving forward. Alsoevaluate the efficacy of the gross
receipts tax and its varied impact onbusinesses with high gross sales and
low margins like those in the hospitalityindustry.
Shandie Johnson 97029 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Taxes & regulation for business and everyday people. Cut a bunch of taxes out and lowertaxes that are left. Lift most if not all Very few taxes and limited permittingand regulations. Everyone. It's all about who is voted intogoverment that creates these taxes and None. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please help us get taxes cut. Oregon'sdesire to tax everyone with nothing in NA
restriction, permitting, and anything elsethat slows building, growth, and regulations. return is killing Oregon and the peoplethat live here.
James Santee 97103 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Inability to understand the need for change, and change NOW. Each opening new business.I would start by getting rid of the "dead Better attitude towards change and Too many committies full of well I would like to see a comprehensive I have heard of some trade education Yes Workforce Need a better focus on the I hate using the term "blue collar" Elevate the professional standing of Boy or Girl graduating from HS and The first thing that needs to be done is The university and college systems Why not copy some of what the Nordic No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop using consultants to justify NA
community should have the capacity to attract better paying jobs, encouragelocal students to stay in their own communities and buy a home and raise wood" in some of the local economicdevelopment groups. Just because one rolling up the political sleeves andgetting what needs to be done with no intentioned seat warmers who havenever done anything other than suck air multi-modal transportation systemconnecting communities. We need to programs in Charleston, SouthCarolina that might work here, and "blue collar" trades. because many of these skilledtradesmen earn more than college tradesmen. Stop using Phd types todetermine policy and programs. The heading off to an apprenticeship. stop using committee processdominated by consultants, Phd types need a massive reexamination with thethe goal of putting bacon on the table for countries are doing. Germany seems toget some solid results from their outdated and at times reallly convolutedprograms. I have seen some very
a family. is an honored citizen or can warm chairdoes not reflect capacity and the ability more excuses. or wish something different. Whensomething different is proposed they connect communities and not worryabout local bus services as this can be maybe some from Norfolk, Virginia. Weneed an indepth well trained work force presidents. lack of clarity from the chatteringclasses makes things worse. trying to justify their existance, andcollege administrators who never held the average citizen and not glorifyingfoot ball teams or prancing about the programs. questionable consultant reports someof which could have been compiled by a
look at new opportunities. are the first to oppose. performed in a more efficient manner byother methods. and the Job Corps is not it. ClatsopCommunity College is a "wanna-be" a real job in their entire life writing therules of engagement. room like one legged jack rabbitsproclaiming the results for the latest high school cheer leaders groups, andpeople very happy with the garbage that
and will never raise to the level that istruly necessary for a highly dynamic and expensive consultants report. has been presented. Garbage is thebest term that can be printed. I have
constantly changing work force andbusiness environment. some real horror stories dealing withconsultants and garbage reports.
Kathryn Williams 97204-3034 Organization/Business NW Natural Public NA Energy 1000+ people Business climate Climate Protection Program (CPP) Pause the program to preventbusinesses from becoming less Climate Protection Program is replacedwith an economy wide Cap and Governor (short term) immediatelypause or remove and Legislature (2027 N/A Washington and California both have afunctional, transparent, economy wide, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Very much appreciate the time councilmembers are dedicating to this critical NA
competitive and keeping energyaffordable for Oregonians. Trade/Cap and Invest program. session) to replace with Cap and Invest market-based Cap & Invest program. effort!
David Reid 97103 Organization/Business Astoria Warrenton AreaChamber of Commerce Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Regulation, regulatory process, and the punitive application of regulation Regular review of regulatory burden toconfirm their necessity and efficacy. Regulated businesses have a cleartimeline for permits, agencies have Regulatory agencies, likely withmandates from the Governor's office Business Oregon and the regionalsolutions system, although regional NA Yes Business climate NA Taxation for business is growingwithout a foreseeable limit or a cogent Lower taxation across the board butparticularly an abolishment of gross An acknowledgement at the state levelthat business taxes are a last resort, Legislature and the governors office NA NA Yes Business climate Abandonment by the state of theintended use of room tax funds. Return to a taxation model that returnsmeaningful portions of room taxes to A return to a Travel Oregon/regional andlocal DMO tourism management model Legislature Travel Oregon, the seven regionalDMO's, local DMO's, who all work Oregon's legacy system workedbeautifully. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Business and industry are not aproblem to managed or a threat from NA
Services Clearer processes for creatingregulation. Accountability from enforceable timelines for issuingpermits and a workable mechanism for solutions seems to spend a lot of timeaddressing the shortcomings of the plan. revenue taxes, which are especiallyonerous for businesses. not a first one. Plans for dismantlingcorporate activity taxes in favor of net tourism promotion and managementfunctions that, in turn, generate more that has been wildly successful forOregon for decades and the envy of together to ensure the greatest overallbenefit for our state from visitation. which Oregonians need to be protected.They consist of Oregonians and, by
regulatory agencies to the businesscommunity on timelines, process, and relief in the event of complications. regulatory system. If that system wereright-sized, responsible, and income taxes. future room tax dollars. Continue toallow for portions of the room tax to help other states. A return to the agreementmade with hospitality to tax visitors and large, want the whole state to thrive.Treating us like partners in everything
outcomes. responsive, regional solutions wouldhave less to do. offset road maintenance andemergency services demands. Stop responsibly and reasonably. Morelatitude in tourism dependent counties from funding state government toenvironmental protection is the only
any room taxes that go to other matters,regardless of how important those for use of those dollars is appropriate,so long as the DMO efforts, which path to success.
matters may be. generate ROI, are sufficiently funded.
Sarah Gledhill 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Taxes and fees! People are leaving Portland en massebecause of the income tax and property Diversified tax revenue with less burdenon individuals and families. legislature, local government n/a n/a No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
taxes. To develop the workforce, youneed a favorable tax environment.
John Sweet 97420 Both Coos County Public NA CountyGovernment 101-500 people Business climate Over regulation, constant appeal of land use decisions, and taxes Decrease regulation, work to reduceland use decisions appeals, create a Less regulation, reduced land usedecision appeals, and a taxing regimen All the above. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
taxing regimen (Income, Property, and athird leg, Sales. competitive with other states.
Larry Dickson 97535 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon now is in the lower layer of business friendly states. We havesuccessful businesses leaving the state. State policies that cause Begin to review all laws and regulationsaffecting business and begin to remove New businesses are being establishedin Oregon along with businesses The state legislature must producepolicies and laws that improve the Oregon does have a good land useatmosphere but I believe rules have I think looking at Idaho and SouthDakota have implemented reasonable No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The "progressive" atmospherepolitically has put a damper on NA
burdensome regulations and higher taxes on businesses at all levels. Aswell regulations regarding local building codes and restricted land use impediments to business growth. Aswell, a survey of all the businesses that moving to Oregon because of abusiness friendly climate business climate along with the variousdepartments to review regulations that been implemented that preventsbusiness growth laws and regulations that have causedthe business climates to flourish. business growth in our State.
rules add to the horrible business climate in Oregon have left Oregon assessing thereasons they have left Oregon would impede business development. Landuse rules need to be reviewed and
provide more insight as to what to fix. eliminate those rules that preventbusiness growth
Pamela Dickson 97535 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Lack of employable youth who are ready to enter the work force. Ourschools are not teaching basics of reading, writing and mathematics. This A greater emphasis on reading, writingand mathematics and then more A reinstitution of graduation standardsand requirements which reflect Initiate good policies and laws to makeit happen. Then it would be the State Charter schools and schools whichhold to higher standards regardless of School choice vouchers. Turn aroundin Mississippi schools when they were No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I do not like the politics Governor Kotekis using to ram SB 1599 through the NA
means they are not ready for community colleges and those communitycolleges are having to offer remedial classes. teaching of trade skills so students canbe ready for jobs. competencies in the reading, writingand mathematics. Our students Department of Education, then the localschool districts, individual schools, what the governor did when shedropped graduation requirements. able to raise their reading scores fromthe bottom of rankings to the top 10 in Special Session in September whichafterwards she took a long time to sign,
entering the work force would have thenecessary skills for employment and principals and school boards. the nation. but after we got enough signatures onthe petition to put it on the November
those wanting to pursue furthereducation would have the necessary ballot, now she and her democratcohorts push it through the Short
skills and not need remediation. Session to move it to the May election,in direct opposition to what we the
voters want.
David Squire 97005 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Pre-k thru 3rd grade early education Make a priority and fund it. This is aworkforce issue. Percentage increase in 3rd gradestudent results. All of the above. Don't know I hear Mississippi is really doing wellwith this. Better than us. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Timothy Bishop 97850 Both City of La Grande EconomicDevelopment La Grande Public Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Challenge or friction point: Right sized and properly resourced solutions.New tools and strategies must be scalable to be effective in both rural and No one size fits all solutionsand incentives should be scalable to New tools New incentives include smalltown/rural, mid size, and metro Business Oregon and partner agenciesand legislature need to take policy lead Oregon Main Street Program. is one ofthe most effective small business The Innovation Hubs appears to be offto a good start and this approach has a No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 2025%20%20Main%20Street%20Annual%20Report_Final.pdf
Main Street Rural resident Services urban settings Top heavy administrative solutions are hard to scale in asmall town with limited staff and technical resources. Incentives that small , mid size , and largercommunities. If incentives or tools strategies that scale resourcesincluding administrative support capacity limits and implementationLocal governments can help identify assistance and development programsin the state. Oregon's often lot of promise.entrepreneurs and especially small and A focus on start up
require a minimum project budget are often off the table for smallercommunities. require significant administrativeoverhead, provide technical support for accordingly.threshold that locks out smaller No minimum investment needs underfunded local main streetprograms track record of leveraging micro manufacturing product makingbusinesses that could scale to help
communities that lack the neededadministrative capacity where feasible communities. local reinvestment in new businessesand community redevelopment make address local and regional supplychain stabilization. Washington State
do away with minimum investment orproject cost requirements to access this program one of the most efficientand highest return on investment has a Main Street Tax Credit programthat has significantly helped stabilize
incentives. A $5million project inPortland metro is pretty common, a economic development strategies. and strengthen local downtownrevitalization programs resulting in
$5million project in La Grande is harderand less common. stronger downtowns and city centersacross the state.
Dietrich Wieland 97214 Organization/Business An architecture,engineering, and land use Private Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Tools for growth Land supply is the number one issue. Without large, contiguous,development-ready sites, we don't even have the option to get to the table Change UGB methodologies for growthand leverage the State's ability to Ideally having more land zoned forindustrial, contiguous and development I assume all levels of government andboth public and private sector. Educate I am not aware of helpful programs andpolicies to provide more development Greater Sacramento appears mobilizedand aligned between public and private Yes Business climate NA Comprehensive Tax Reform. Comprehensive tax reform to be morebusiness friendly and for individuals. State legislature to adopt tax reform.Multnomah County/METRO to Elected officials will need to maketough decisions and convince the I don't have a good answer for what ishelpful right now. I don't have a good answer for this. Oursystem is not working. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We need to change the narrative onhow we talk about economic NA
planning firm. Services with some users. legislate in new industrial lands forgrowth. ready, but that is probably not realisticbut significant measurable progress to public that economic development =community development and why it ready sites at the pace that it is needed. sectors on the need for developmentready sites and a strong economic Companies won't move here if C-suiteexecutives won't move here. I am not a restructure pre-school for all and otheradded taxes to appropriately balance public that economic development isnot a bad word and without economic development. The average citizen isanti-development and anti-growth but
that goal. needs to be a top priority. development strategy. So is Phoenix. tax policy expert to provide specificchanges. our tax burden for businesses andindividuals. development there is no communitydevelopment. those jobs and businesses are whatpays for libraries, roads, schools,
affordable housing, mental health, etc.We need to change how we talk about
economic development such that it issupported by the general public.
Karen Jacobson 97035 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The perception of the business community is that the tax system in Oregonis a repellant to business development. As a tax professional I know that The entire tax system of the state ofOregon has long been in need of a A variety of tax modifying ballot measureare being voted on. Legislature, supported or led by electedofficials. Industrial property tax, personal propertytax and real property tax administrative One stop shopping for business taxregistration, administration and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon has a lot of things going for it --people want to move here for quality of NA
others are worse, but perception is reality to Oregon's detriment. Theestate tax is problematic. complete overhaul. We need to rethinkand reconfigure all of our tax types, and services seem to work well and provideassistance. information gathering life. We need to overcome theperceptions and realities of our system
to add a sales tax. Taxing agencies atthe state level are not properly of state and local taxes and fees whichgive us a business-repellant image.
integrated and user friendly.
Lawrence Atkinson 97304 Organization/Business Instruction Construction Non-profit NA Workforcetraining 1 - 20 people Workforce Lack of opportunities for apprentice hiring, especially large unionorganizations. Change the way training occurs forapprenticeships with the state finding If apprentices could continue to betrained during a slow down, they would Legislature, BOLI, and trainingorganizations None. As a small training organization,grants and funding goes to large Increase the number of apprentices thatcan work under a licensed journeyman. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The trades requires a business friendlystate to provide opportunities for more NA
ways to support continued trainingwhen the economy slows. be ready to be licensed journeymanwhen the economy picks up. This established organizations andcommunity colleges with no regard to investment. Oregon has continued toincrease regulations, fees, taxes, and
would reduce the need to hire from outof state to fill needed positions. their success providing qualifiedcandidates to fill apprenticeships red tape that hampers or discouragesgrowth in Oregon.
positions.
