 Raise the City’s Business License Tax and the County’s Business
Income Tax gross-receipts exemption to $150,000 and index the
threshold to inflation. This will reduce paperwork and costs for
startups and small businesses, strengthening the city’s business
ecosystem and future tax base.
 Develop a public financing solution to tackle the significant deferred
maintenance and modernization of Portland’s iconic sports and
entertainment venues, including the full renovation of the Moda
Center, which is the oldest NBA arena to have never undergone a
major renovation. State and City leaders must take all necessary
public finance, policy, and infrastructure actions to guarantee the
Portland Trail Blazers franchise continues for future generations of
Oregonians and continues to support other Portland sport franchises
like the Portland Fire, Thorns and Timbers.
 Advocate at the state level to reform System Development Charges
(SDC) to be used for deferred maintenance and address our
crumbling city assets.
 Permitting and development services should meet predictable and
competitive timelines for permit approval. The City of Portland and
all local governments must adopt plans to make optimal use of all
industrial lands and ensure we have the necessary land supply to
accommodate economic growth.
 The city should continue to take all necessary actions to rapidly
advance a series of generational economic development
opportunities that pass the Central City onto future generations:
Broadway Corridor, New Albina/Rose Quarter, Future OMSI District,
Zidell Yards, Lloyd Center, PSU.
 Government partners at all levels should continue to advance both
the I-5 Bridge Replacement project and Rose Quarter transportation
infrastructure projects.
 Continue to collaborate with Cascadia Mega Region partners to
advance Cascadia high speed rail.
 The City of Portland must continue to be a full partner with the
Portland Diamond Project and bring Major League Baseball to the
Rose City.
 The City of Portland, Multnomah County, and the State of Oregon
should partner to stabilize and invest in our historic festivals,
