Emily Golden-Fields 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce More options for families and workers to live in Oregon. Expanding transportation, education,wage increase, care work. Free and public preschool and college,where teachers are paid a living wage. More revenue. Support free and publiceducation, transportation, and Preschool for all (I know many youngfamilies of professionals who move Class size caps for schools inWashington and Texas (Texas has No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We need to expand the care gap.Support parents from birth until NA
Schools that are fully funded so thatworking families want to move here. expanded social services. here because of that program). much smaller class size than we do),free and public statewide preschool kindergarten with free and publicdaycare and preschool. THAT is how
(Indiana), free and public preschool anddaycare for 2-year-olds in NYC. you grow an economy.
Jeff Lewis 97321 Both Natural Gas Industry Public NA Natural Gas 1000+ people Workforce Electric cost has already doubled in the last 7 years. I was paying 7 cents akw and now pay 14 cents a kw. My average power bill is 300 dollars a Make solar power affordable. I wouldinvest in solar if my rate of return of Personally no home on the power grid.Affordable solar that pays for itself in Everyone. Government and legislatureneed better education and training on None because they want us to look likeCalifornia. Unaffordable Texas, cheap natural gas prices.Germany when they had nuclear power, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
month and can be 450 dollars during peak cooling season with all thefancy energy efficiency garbage that never pays itself back over time. My gas investment could be cut to 7 years.Send tax payers incentives to get away short amount of time. Or personal gasgenerators that are 98 percent efficient how the energy sector actually works. energy was abundant and there isnothing cleaner or safer.
bill for heating during peak heating has always stayed the same andaverages 100 dollars and during peak heating is 175. And I cook with gas from the gouging power companiesand get off grid. that provide low cost affordable energyto homes.
to feed my family. Why would I want to keep paying more for electricity whenit’s already unaffordable? Natural gas is safe, clean and has the lowest
carbon footprint for heating. Moving to power would actually increasenatural gas usage as current power infrastructure would have to
supplement with natural gas power generation.
Linda R DeLucia 97223 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I believe that the issue of business taxes is an important one. I see aproblem with business not sharing enough of the overall tax burden I believe that given the abovecircumstances, more business tax Business paying their fair share oftaxes, and paying wages that give This should be done at all levels ofgovernment, including all of the above. I think better public education is thearea of most concern to me and my I don't know what other states are doingat this time, but it seems that there are Yes Workforce NA There are still too many people who donot earn a living wage and their benefits Create a living wage, and considerhealthcare for all. We will have a prosperous communitywith less homelessness and without We need government at all levels tomake this happen and we need There are minimum wage laws already,but they need to be updated. The I cannot answer this, since I have beena resident of only Oregon for many Yes Tools for growth I think streamlining the items abovewould be helpful unless it hurts Consider making cities more dense,and consider what businesses would fit We still have growth in the state, butcities are more compact. Oregon's Every level of government must beinvolved, but the employers should be Since I have done a lot of outdooractivities, I appreciate all of the NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I think I have discussed enough for now. NA
necessary for quality public services, including education. In every election,year after year, there is a bond or other similar measure asking citizens for breaks should be minimal and inproportion to what public services citizens a chance to improve their lives.We have seen time and time again that family. Since I had a great education inanother state, I can really see the similar shortages around the country. are shrinking. There are too manyhomeless people. A prosperous food shortages. People would be ableto see a doctor when they need to. employers who are willing tocommunicate their needs to the state. Bureau of Labor has been helpful increating training programs and skill years. You could watch the mayor ofNew York City! residents of the state or the state itself.For example, what is happening to our well into the state. For example, limitthe number of data centers and make recreation areas remain intact. too. Employers have to consider theoverall state and not be willing to conservation policies of both the stateand local entities. But I also live in the
an increase in taxes for every public service including schools, police, fire,library, etc (not all at once). However we have become used to seeing this actually cost. If AI progresses,business should be asked to pay more, good wages are key to having aprosperous community. inadequacies of Oregon's schools. Wealso need policies that guarantee community can't exist with inadequatecompensation and businesses will be We need employers who are willing topay people a living wage. building. We should make sure theBureau is well funded. Going back to public lands is terrible. We should notgive employers the ability to destroy the them pay their own energy costs. Don'tdestroy our wildlife. destroy whatever they can. city and I would like to see the citiesoperating better. The amount of homes
every time we vote. That this has to be done so frequently signifies thatthere are major funding shortages in these areas. Businesses constantly because they will be the only ones whowill have enough money to do it. They healthcare, free school lunches, andhousing policies to get rid of less willing to operate in Oregon if theysee a state that's falling apart. The the original topic on businesses, moretax breaks will make it harder to state itself by cutting down the state'sforests or other actions that will change that have been built on Ptld's westsidehas destroyed so much farm land and
ask for tax breaks which makes this situation worse. We know in generalthat more and more people cannot afford what they used to, and many are will have fewer employees to pay, andso should have higher profits. homelessness. legislature should pass an adequateliving wage bill that covers everyone. accomplish any of these goals. the character of the state. The big plusof Oregon is in it's recreational areas driven city dwellers further out.Something should be done to contain
struggling. Any tax breaks for business increases taxes on citizens. This istimely because I have been considering attending city council meetings to Luckily we have strong unions inOregon, but many people are not in that so many come to see.personally don't like the urban sprawl I this.
ask why we are bearing these costs and how much business is or is notpaying. Another issue is AI. If AI leads to more layoffs, the economic unions. The state should make iteasier to join them. The business that has developed around the Portlandarea. It's taking away from the beauty of
hardship on regular citizens will increase. This is why many unions have AIat the top of their list for bargaining. We live in a world that depends on community should be proactive in thisarea. A major consideration is the state. We have so many displacedanimals showing up in places they
work and if work goes away, we will have a catastrophe higher than wehave ever seen. We are already seeing the effects of data centers around healthcare. No one should be without it.The state needs to find a way to fund should never be. We can contain someof this by making urban areas more
the country. all too willing to let the public pay the costs in their utility bills. healthcare for all. Recent action onhealthcare by Congress has only made dense and where there are goodtransportation systems that allow less
it harder for people to find affordablehealthcare. I have already addressed driving and fewer cars on the roads.
education. Our schools are not thebest. As an example, I recently was
talking to a high school graduate whohad never heard of World War II.
Although history may not be asimportant as it used to be, we still need
to motivate and teach students subjectsthat will affect their lives. We can't forget
the trades. We still need electricians,plumbers, etc. We need to make sure
Peter Dorman 97232 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Strong public services, high quality of life. Funding of higher ed is important not This is a short horizon for evaluating Legislature mainly, but also local Urban growth boundaries have been NA Yes Workforce NA that we can teach students whatevertrade they want to go into. EmployersEducation at all levels, from preschool Long ago, I proposed a publicly NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
just for workforce reasons, but to attractinnovative researchers who can make long term investments. At the least, weshould prevent deterioration along government. effective, although we may need newpolicies to encourage more intensive to postgraduate, is a very high priority.There are innovative ideas we could supported internship program drawingon private business, with the idea of
Oregon an incubator of new ideas,technologies, strategies. Expanding these fronts. infilling. implement to support OJT as well. transforming low skill entry level jobsinto skill building experiences.
public parks and environmentalprotection leverages Oregon's natural
beauty to attract creative people to thestate and keep them here.
Tyler Brown 97814 Both Barley Brown’s Beer Private Food andBeverage NA 21-100 people Tools for growth One of the major challenges facing the tourism and visitor industry inOregon is the lack of consistent state investment in gateway infrastructure. The State of Oregon should implementa targeted program to rehabilitate and Within two to three years, interstate exitsshould reflect Oregon’s “Keep Oregon The State of Oregon, through ODOT,must take responsibility for fixing and Tourism. Travel Oregon is great, EOVAalso helps with our region. I’m California does an outstanding job ofadvertising their state as a brand. And Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Visitors traveling into our communities form their first impression of Oregonat freeway exits, rest areas, and highway signage. Unfortunately, many of maintain deteriorating interstate exits,such as Baker City’s Exit 304. As the Green” identity—clean, maintained, andvisually consistent with the state’s maintaining interstate exits, as theseare state-owned corridors. The state personally disappointed in the OregonLegislature choosing to allow a change travels to Arizona show great examplesof how freeway exits can be well
these critical entry points have not received meaningful updates ormaintenance in decades. In Baker County, for example, the primary owner of these corridors, the state musttake responsibility for restoring natural beauty. Visitors should bewelcomed by clear signage and healthy should also provide funding directly tocommunities like Baker City so they can in the way TLT taxes are dedicated totourism. While that shift may help designed and embrace the local cultureand natural beauty.
gateway from Interstate 84 into Baker City—Exit 304—appears largelyunchanged since it was constructed in the 1970s. Landscaping is poorly landscaping, removing debris, andreplacing outdated or ineffective landscaping that reinforce Oregon’sreputation as a premier destination, not hire local contractors to maintain theseareas to a higher standard. This places like Seaside, it can potentiallyhave negative consequences in the
maintained, with dead or dying shrubs, weeds, and visible trash. Areaswhere landscaping has been removed have been replaced with gravel that signage.enforcing a consistent maintenance By establishing and detract from it. approach ensures the state leads on itsown infrastructure while giving local Eastern Counties.
does not reflect the natural character of Eastern Oregon. At the same time,interstate signage promoting key attractions—such as Baker City’s standard for highway gateways, thestate can immediately improve first communities the ability to keep theirgateways clean, attractive, and reflective
nationally recognized historic district and the Geiser Grand Hotel—hasfaded to the point of being difficult to read. These conditions create an impressions for visitors and bettersupport local tourism economies. of their character.
unfortunate first impression for visitors entering Oregon and undermine thestate’s reputation as a premier travel destination. Strategic investment in
gateway infrastructure, signage, and basic maintenance would significantlystrengthen Oregon’s tourism economy. Clean, attractive freeway exits and
well-maintained visitor signage are relatively small investments that candramatically improve the visitor experience, support local tourism
economies, and reinforce Oregon’s brand as a welcoming and high-qualitydestination.
Selvin Cano 97301 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The Oregon Climate Protection Program (CPP) is harming businesses,workers and consumers in Oregon’s natural gas industry by steadily The most effective solution would be torepeal the Oregon Climate Protection Success in the next 2–3 years wouldmean Oregon has policies in place that For this to happen, action is neededfrom state policymakers, regulators or Programs that support family-wagejobs, workforce development, and Minnesota’s Natural Gas Innovation Actallows utilities to pilot renewable No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As a BIPOC and sole provider workingin Oregon’s natural gas industry, my NA
increasing compliance costs on utilities. As those costs rise, companiesare forced to cut spending, delay projects, and reduce work that union Program (CPP). The program isincreasing costs on natural gas utilities protect family-wage energy jobs whilestill working toward reasonable the Governor . The Oregon StateLegislature would need to take the lead energy reliability are the most helpfuland should continue. Policies that natural gas, hydrogen blending, andenergy efficiency projects while union job is what allows me to providefor my family. The Climate Protection
employees depend on for stable jobs. The program also appearsdesigned to rapidly push electrification without fully considering the impact and businesses while putting pressureon family-wage jobs that thousands of environmental goals. Repealing theOregon Climate Protection Program in repealing or reforming the OregonClimate Protection Program, while the support apprenticeship and workforcetraining through programs overseen by maintaining reliable service. NewHampshire and Ohio have similar Program scares me because risingcarbon tax means fewer projects and
on existing energy workers and the communities we serve. Policymakersshould ensure climate policies reduce emissions while also protecting Oregon workers rely on. Eliminating theCPP would remove this regulatory would allow natural gas utilities andrelated businesses to invest in Oregon Department of EnvironmentalQuality would be responsible for the Oregon Bureau of Labor andIndustries help ensure workers can programs that let utilities invest in lower-carbon solutions and recover costs, fewer work hours for the people whobuild and maintain the system. Jobs
family-wage jobs and maintaining a reliable, balanced energy system. burden and allow companies tocontinue investing in infrastructure, infrastructure, maintain reliable service,and keep stable employment for implementing any changes to theprogram. Employers, labor unions, and enter and advance in skilled trades withgood wages and benefits. Oregon’s helping customers adopt cleanerenergy without sudden price increases. like mine provide good wages, benefits,and stability for families like mine. I’m
maintaining reliable energy service, andsupporting stable employment. Oregon workers across the state. It would alsocreate a more balanced energy policy industry stakeholders should also bepart of the discussion to ensure support for union apprenticeshipprograms and workforce development These models reward both utilities andcustomers for reducing emissions and proud of the work we do to keep energyreliable for Oregon communities, and I
can still pursue emissions reductionsthrough balanced policies that protect that supports innovation, such asrenewable natural gas and hydrogen, policies protect jobs, maintain reliableenergy service, and support partnerships also helps maintain ahighly trained workforce that keeps could serve as examples for Oregon.States like Texas, Pennsylvania, hope policymakers consider how thesedecisions impact not just me and my
workers, businesses, and energyreliability without forcing policies that harmexisting workers and businesses. responsible environmental goals. critical energy infrastructure operatingsafely and reliably. Continuing policies Oklahoma, Louisiana, and WestVirginia are frequently cited as places family, but all working familiesthroughout Oregon.
that support infrastructure investmentand skilled labor will help sustain where abundant natural gas, low taxes,and supportive energy policy help keep
stable employment and strongcommunities across the state. energy costs low for consumers andindustry.
Jered Thomas 97302 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The Oregon Climate Protection Program is going to drive up energy costsand reduce incentives to bring business into Oregon and keep those Freeze or reduce planned increases incost to utilities and energy providers in Moving more towards the Minnesotamodel or at least keep our added costs I think the OR Gov could act to freeze theOCPP. But the legislature will need to I think the Oregon State Park feestructure has done a great job to keep Minnesota’s Natural Gas Innovation Actallows utilities to pilot renewable No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I would like a greater call for volunteersand to show those of us who would like NA
employeed in Oregon working. the OCCP. the lowest on the West coast to inviteWa and Ca business to explore a lower act in the long term. our parks looking great andaccommodating. But I'd still like to see natural gas, hydrogen blending, andenergy efficiency projects while to pitch in where we can easily help.
cost to operate. easier access or exemptions for lowincome families. maintaining reliable service. States likePennsylvania, Louisiana, and West
Virginia are frequently cited as placeswhere abundant natural gas, and
supportive energy policy help keepenergy costs low for industry.
Steve mcintosh 97086 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Affordability for normal people The tax rate proposed is way higherthan other states and we all know it Most people are getting priced out ofOregon or not able to make living pay Government state and local NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Jason Rusch 97103 Both Northwest Natural Gas Public Business and NA 1000+ people Workforce Equal transparency for natural gas & electricity consumption gets passed onto the consumerTransparency for public utilities check to pay checkTruth All NA Honesty No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ProfessionalServices
Ana Salinas 97045 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Climate protection program. The biggest barrier is the additional costs thatOregon businesses and consumers will have to bear Not raising the costs Lower cost of housing, energy, andgroceries Legislatures Energy efficiency program More green spaces No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Don Taylor 97103 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Natural gas: The state of Oregon making it their mission to eliminatenatural gas use in home and industry. The Bureaucrats that run the state ofOregon need to realize that natural gas The war on natural gas no longer exists! All the above! Actually none. States that are more conservative, doaway with idiotic liberal policies like No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
is a clean, efficient, and affordable formof energy. sanctuary status and war on fossil fuels.
Twila Jacobsen 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Recently in Eugene, PeaceHealth awarded a contract to Apollo MD,financed by private equity. Although they contest this, if you look at the Establish a State Bank that invests inlocal and community development. If Establishment of an investmentmechanism that targets local and small The legislature can begin the processby passing the bill to study a State Bank Financial reform in terms of investmentstrategies of the Oregon Investment Of course the Securities and ExchangeCommission is an important part of the Yes Business climate Workforce The education system has been sorelyunderfunded in Oregon for years. Now We need pre-K for all, free andaccessible. That is where it starts, and The establishment of taxation that is fairto the working class and brings tax This is going to take everyone to look atthe destruction of our public I am not aware of any at this time. As mentioned earlier, Denmark hasestablished an educational system that Yes Tools for growth At the point in time the policies andactions of the current federal The continuation of protecting all peopleliving in Oregon and establishing That we can live and work in ourcommunities without fear of losing our We all need to act, in our capacities thatwe are afforded. The continued efforts of our Departmentof Justice and our Attorney General with Oregon is doing a good job. TheGovernor should speak out more clearly No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It is extremely important to considerclimate change in all the focus areas Tackling%2BClimate%2BRisk%2Bis%2Ba%2BPension%2BFund%E2%80%99
records, it may be owned by a single doctor in Illinois whose funding iscoming from private equity. The current contract is with Eugene Emergency that isn't done, then rules that level theplaying field. businesses, medium businessowners, and industries that are growing initiative and then move the processforward. Local governments can Council, and State Treasury. ability to have transparency andregulations. Gov. Kotek signed a law we have the opportunity to give youngpeople, from pre-K to Higher Ed a new we can look to Denmark for how toestablish the social skills to lay the rates to the levels seen in the post WWIIera of prosperity. infrastructures, including education, infavor of personal private gain and allows young children to flourish. administration is creating chaos andinsecurity throughout our country, and stronger sanctuary laws andregulations. freedoms as stated in our constitutionand the bill of rights. the backing of the Governor and themajority of Oregonians. I also want to and forcefully on these issues. that you are considering. Our future isbased on having a living planet, and s%2BDuty.pdf
Physicians, local doctors who established a 35 year history with theirrelationship and service to the community through working with that provides funding mechanisms. legislate positive incentives for startupand growing local businesses. that prohibits non-physician investorsfrom owning medical practices. That outlook on their future by establishing atax on very high income people and foundation for a desire to learn andengage in these coming restructuring of access. The legislature, of course, anew cadre of educators that are the world. Oregon needs to continue tocounter and maintain our progressive see a celebration of diversity andinclusion, as we all benefit and can Oregon must protect our naturalresources. Giving away water rights to
PeaceHealth. This is an example of how the business climate has shiftedto favor private equity firms that have no relationship to the community and could be expanded. corporations (who are "persons") tojump start the workforce for the future. our economy. provided the resources and managerswho understand what it takes to make a actions that put people andcommunities first. Immigration has learn from the experiences of others.Unions are leading the way in this data centers is not conducive for futuregrowth. Alternative energy systems
history shows businesses that end up on the ends of private equity arecannibalized and eventually closed, i.e. Sears, ToysRUs, JoAnn, Inc., Red learner and not just a test taker. Andemployers to establish mentorships been a factor for positive growth and avibrant economy in Oregon for decades. regard, and need to be held up asexamples of what good citizenship need to be emphasized and developedin both small- and large-scale efforts.
Lobster etc. This is impacting established businesses as well as stiflingnew business in terms of access to funds and investors. Small and internships that can start at themiddle school level. Our agricultural producers, fishing andlandscaping industries rely on a safe means. The current war in Iranwe need to get off of the oil spigot and shows us that
businesses and locally grown are impacted by this short-term andpredatory investment in our healthcare industry, services, goods, all levels immigrant labor force. into wind, solar, geothermal, andenergy efficiencies. Businesses that
of the economy. The Council needs to evaluate the how the State canassist and invest in local businesses and establish rules that hinder this are thinking to the future of increasingtemperatures and drastic changes to
short term investment strategy of private equity. our environment need to be a priority forinvestments today.
Faith Dubin 97223 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Preparing the workforce for the jobs of today's economy and the future, byfurther investments in education and training Further specific financial investments intraining and higher ed More readily available and largerworkforce matched to jobs available in Legislative funding in job training andhigh ed NA NA Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Michael Cox 97038 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The easy of access to provide natural gas and the extended restrictions that Treat the natural gas utility the same as OregonA halt to all misleading information Legislature and local governments. Currently the medical leave for new Not making illegals street drugs legal. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA To listen to ALL of its constituents, not NA
continue to be placed upon it. PGE, as PGE burns more natural gas toproduce power than Northwest Natural distributed by the city surrounding thetopic of natural gas and an adoption of fathers. I think that was a great idea asa nuclear family is important and That was the worst decision that thestate has made in my entire life. just the loudest ones.
Gas delivers to its residentialcustomers. its use as a viable and safe method forheating, cooking, and power generating. allowing a father to bond with their newchildren without fear of the loss of
employment is crucial.
Robert ThorntonAustin Whittaker  9720397201  MyselfMyself  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  Business climateBusiness climate  I’m concerned about jobs being loss over the climate pricing.Attempts to get rid of the livelihood of thousands of families and employees Don’t approve it.Let people actually vote on things that NAKeeping energy prices stable.  NALegislature  NABasically none, you ask for more and NALetting voters vote on issues.  NoNo  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NANA  NAThat’s it.  NANA
by making natural gas unaffordable. would literally change their lives. more and more money every year andstill say it’s not enough and then almost
stole our kicker to have “backup funds”and literally over tax everyone every year
then increase energy prices by 50 %ontop of it with no vote and literally no
assurance that the “agencies” gettingthe funds from it actually use it properly
and literally no system for trackingwhere the funds go.
Heath Sliker 97017 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The use and expansion of use of natural gas Not to add electrification to the state.Natural gas is a good energy source Not taxing our struggling electrical grideven more Legislators NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Barbara Casey 97230 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Training for future needs,living wage and benefits including healthcare,apprenticeship programs Invest in education,affordable post highschool education and training more Educated workforce in place trainingprograms,workplace safety and All of the above. Legislatures have toinact worker friendly policies and Prosperity Oregon allowing CommunityCollege free or more affordable,Oregon Sales Tax and Lottery funds dedicatedto Education, including scholarships to Yes Business climate NA Business resentment in providingaffordable health care and union Pay equity to be a responsible goal forbusiness, not just exacting profit and Fully funded and expanded publictransportation, affordable housing and A mindset change,business model ofunion neutrality. Regulations that Land use planning , responsible energyprograms Business should not expect taxincentives to entice them. Other state do No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Union bashing must end, collaborationis better. True Campaign reform will NA
opportunities to join a union - contractsoffer a sure way to a living wage and conditions of employment clearlydefined regulations. Employers can not shortcut safety and uncut wages and Saves for Retirement, Urban Planningprogram and investing in Infrastructure state universities for state residents.Curtailing tax incentives until a organizing so workers can have a say inworkplace issues workforce reduction. Bettertransportation and housing accessibility a business- union cooperative. support environmental realities yetsupport entrepreneurial innovation. more to show and educateand a strong infrastructure does more d workforce ensure that millions can’t becontributed by one person,one
benefits hours.The need for state revenue mustinclude taxing the most financially viable business can prove its effectiveness incontributing to strong workforce growth so ccommute is reasonable andaffordable. for business than our tax dollars business to sway elections
to afford and not cut those who alreadybenefit from lower taxes and tax shelters
Andrew S Klug 97303-7530 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce I’m a union worker in Oregon’s natural gas industry, and the ClimateProtection Program directly affects my job and my family. Both my wife and I I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection NA
work for the natural gas company, so our household depends on thewages and benefits this industry provides. As carbon costs increase each Program directly affects my job and myfamily. Both my wife and I work for the Program directly affects my job and myfamily. Both my wife and I work for the Program directly affects my job and myfamily. Both my wife and I work for the Program directly affects my job and myfamily. Both my wife and I work for the Program directly affects my job and myfamily. Both my wife and I work for the Program directly affects my job and myfamily. Both my wife and I work for the
year, companies will be forced to cut spending, which means fewerprojects and fewer hours for the workers who build and maintain the natural gas company, so our householddepends on the wages and benefits natural gas company, so our householddepends on the wages and benefits natural gas company, so our householddepends on the wages and benefits natural gas company, so our householddepends on the wages and benefits natural gas company, so our householddepends on the wages and benefits natural gas company, so our householddepends on the wages and benefits
system. It also impacts the union administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations and serve customers every day. this industry provides. As carbon costsincrease each year, companies will be this industry provides. As carbon costsincrease each year, companies will be this industry provides. As carbon costsincrease each year, companies will be this industry provides. As carbon costsincrease each year, companies will be this industry provides. As carbon costsincrease each year, companies will be this industry provides. As carbon costsincrease each year, companies will be
When the system shrinks, those jobs are at risk too. I’m proud of the workwe all do to keep energy reliable and affordable for Oregon families, and forced to cut spending, which meansfewer projects and fewer hours for the forced to cut spending, which meansfewer projects and fewer hours for the forced to cut spending, which meansfewer projects and fewer hours for the forced to cut spending, which meansfewer projects and fewer hours for the forced to cut spending, which meansfewer projects and fewer hours for the forced to cut spending, which meansfewer projects and fewer hours for the
policies like the CPP put these family-wage union jobs at risk. workers who build and maintain thesystem. It also impacts the union workers who build and maintain thesystem. It also impacts the union workers who build and maintain thesystem. It also impacts the union workers who build and maintain thesystem. It also impacts the union workers who build and maintain thesystem. It also impacts the union workers who build and maintain thesystem. It also impacts the union
administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations administrative staff and call centerworkers who support these operations
and serve customers every day. Whenthe system shrinks, those jobs are at and serve customers every day. Whenthe system shrinks, those jobs are at and serve customers every day. Whenthe system shrinks, those jobs are at and serve customers every day. Whenthe system shrinks, those jobs are at and serve customers every day. Whenthe system shrinks, those jobs are at and serve customers every day. Whenthe system shrinks, those jobs are at
risk too. I’m proud of the work we all doto keep energy reliable and affordable risk too. I’m proud of the work we all doto keep energy reliable and affordable risk too. I’m proud of the work we all doto keep energy reliable and affordable risk too. I’m proud of the work we all doto keep energy reliable and affordable risk too. I’m proud of the work we all doto keep energy reliable and affordable risk too. I’m proud of the work we all doto keep energy reliable and affordable
for Oregon families, and policies likethe CPP put these family-wage union for Oregon families, and policies likethe CPP put these family-wage union for Oregon families, and policies likethe CPP put these family-wage union for Oregon families, and policies likethe CPP put these family-wage union for Oregon families, and policies likethe CPP put these family-wage union for Oregon families, and policies likethe CPP put these family-wage union
jobs at risk. jobs at risk. jobs at risk. jobs at risk. jobs at risk. jobs at risk.
Tricia Jamison 97203 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Any and all barriers that prohibit growth and expansion of needed energyproduction Eliminate permitting and land use issues, environmental Open the state for business, supportthese desperately needed industries to Unlimited, economical power supply inour own backyard Legislature, local government,education and training I’m not aware of any state programsthat are helpful in this area Not charging the consumer ridiculouscarbon fees or any other fees No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The people cannot endure any morecosts for the promise of brown out and NA
issues that prohibit growth of this needed infrastructure come here and do business withouthand cuffing them with all your disguised as carbon creditsthe consumer with the energy they need Provide black outs created by an ignorant stateand local government
Mike Jamison 97203 Both Northwest Natural Gas Private NA Energy 1000+ people Business climate The state’s negative attitude towards energy ridiculous regulationsEliminate barriers that prohibit energy Nuclear power generation, natural gas It will require the legislature and local I am not aware of any such programs not more taxes and feesNuclear, natural gas power generation, Yes Workforce Family wage jobs Ignorance, environmentalists, and Legislature and government need to Fuel refineries being built in our region, Legislature, local governments, I am not aware of any state programs Allowing power companies to exist, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The reality is our region is just about out NA
Company companies/employers from doingbusiness and providing the energy that power generation, clean coal powergeneration, refineries producing governments, environmentalists to beeducated out of their ignorance towards existing oil drilling, gasoline and dieselproduction permitting are the biggest challenges see the reality of our dwindling powersupply and remove all barriers to power generation facilities being built inour region, no bans on natural gas use education and training that are helpful in this area thrive and employ thousands of workersproviding family wage jobs of power and the time to act is quicklypassing by, wake up people
this region desperately needs whilelikely providing thousands of family gasoline and diesel in the PacificNorthwest, LNG terminals on the energy development and production ofthe energy that this region desperately bolstering our power productionfacilities to meet the ever growing for homes and businesses and powergeneration
wage careers Oregon coast and ocean going rivers needs demand for electricity and natural gasas fuel for our homes and businesses
and gasoline and diesel for all forms oftransportation
ADAM LUTTROPP 97080 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate PGE is the largest user of natural gas in the state of Oregon Maintain a dual energy option. If Oregongoes all electric, we would burn more Keeping a well balanced multi-fuelsystem in place. Legislation Energy trust Utah No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection NA
natural gas than we are currently. Program directly affects my job and myfamily. The wages and benefits I earn
help support my household and providestability. As carbon costs increase every
year, companies will have to cutspending, which means fewer projects
and fewer hours for the workers whobuild and maintain the system. It also
impacts the union administrative staffand call center workers who support
these operations and serve customersevery day. When the system shrinks,
those jobs are at risk too. I’m proud ofthe work we all do to keep energy
reliable and affordable for Oregonfamilies, and policies like the CPP put
these family-wage union jobs at risk.
Jaden McIntosh 97045 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA CPP As a single parent working in Oregon’snatural gas industry, my union job is Lower the carbon compliance tax Legislatures NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I’m a union worker in Oregon’s naturalgas industry, and the Climate Protection NA
what allows me to provide for my family.The Climate Protection Program Program directly affects my job and myfamily. The wages and benefits I earn
worries me because rising carboncosts will eventually mean fewer help support my household and providestability. As carbon costs increase every
projects and fewer work hours for thepeople who build and maintain the year, companies will have to cutspending, which means fewer projects
system. Jobs like mine provide goodwages, benefits, and stability for and fewer hours for the workers whobuild and maintain the system. It also
families like mine. I’m proud of the workwe do to keep energy reliable for impacts the union administrative staffand call center workers who support
Oregon communities, and I hopepolicymakers consider how these these operations and serve customersevery day. When the system shrinks,
decisions impact working families. those jobs are at risk too. I’m proud ofthe work we all do to keep energy
reliable and affordable for Oregonfamilies, and policies like the CPP put
these family-wage union jobs at risk.
Andrew S Klug 97303 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Supporting your local gas company workers. Open doors for northwest natural to runtheir business efficiently and effectively Northwest natural gas expands in themarket, restrictions lifted on collections Local government And legislature NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
so we can business compete in themarket. and growth.
Lynette Herlan 97470 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Lack of affordable housing Elimination of train whistles inside citylimits. One Eugene resident estimates Trains travel about 20-30 mph incongested areas and yet the whistles Federal regulations would need to bechanged. Currently, there are NA Light rail and electric trolley buses. Itraveled on Amtrak to Seattle last No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
there are over 1,000 train whistles daily.It drives residents away and creates are ear-piercing around the clock. Theyshould be eliminated if trains are exceptions on the use of whistles ifthere are physical barriers but most summer and the trip was so awful I willnever do it again. Constant train
hundreds of empty buildings and emptylots that could be used for residential traveling under a certain speed. Thewhistles are designed for safety but the cities can't afford the cost or feel it isn'timportant. However, they are whistles for hours. I felt I had goneback in time to the 19th century. I think
housing in areas that already haveroads, utilities, nearby jobs, schools, offsetting ramifications are devastatingto our communities. It's no different overlooking the potential increase in taxrevenue if all of the empty buildings in we can do better!
bus lines, public transportation, etc. than eliminating the 55 mph speed limiton freeways several years ago. their inner cities were filled withapartments and condos. We need to
add an exception for trains traveling atslow speeds, which they already do
now in metropolitan areas.
Vanessa Moore 97080 Both NW Natural Private Business andProfessional NA 1000+ people Business climate One of the biggest challenges affecting Oregon’s business climate is theincreasing cost and uncertainty created by the Climate Protection Program I would recommend an immediatepause on further implementation of the Success would mean Oregon has aclimate policy that still pursues State leadership will need to act,including the Governor’s office, the Oregon’s support for apprenticeshipprograms and skilled trade training has Some states have taken a moregradual and balanced approach to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I would encourage the ProsperityCouncil to carefully consider how policy NA
Services (CPP). The program has quickly become one of the most aggressivecarbon pricing programs in North America, and the costs associated with it Climate Protection Program so thestate can fully evaluate its economic environmental goals while protectingaffordability and economic stability. In Oregon Legislature, and relevant stateregulatory agencies. It will also been extremely valuable in developing astrong workforce. These programs help climate policy by phasing in programsmore slowly and conducting stronger decisions affect everyday Oregonresidents and workers. Energy
are already being passed down to businesses and residents throughhigher energy prices. Industries that rely on natural gas and impacts on workers, businesses, andresidents. During that pause, Oregon practical terms, that would include:More predictable regulatory policies for require input from employers, labororganizations, energy providers, and create career pathways into family-wage jobs in infrastructure, energy, and economic impact reviews beforeimplementation. Looking at models affordability and economic stability arecritical to maintaining a strong middle
transportation fuels are facing rising costs that make it harder to operateand plan long term. These costs don’t just affect large companies they should conduct a transparent review ofthe program’s cost impacts on energy businessesmanageable for households and Energy costs that remain local communities to ensure policiesreflect real-world economic impacts. construction.workforce development and training Continuing to invest in that emphasize both environmentalprogress and economic class in this state.on natural gas because it is a reliable Many families rely
impact contractors, small businesses, and workers across many sectors.In the natural gas industry alone, thousands of family-wage union jobs prices, job stability, and businesscompetitiveness. Any climate policy employersinfrastructure and maintenance projects Continued investment in programs will be important tomaintaining a strong labor force and competitiveness could help Oregonavoid unintended consequences such and cost effective energy source forheating and cooking, especially during
depend on infrastructure maintenance, construction, and system support. Ifcompanies are forced to reduce investment because of rising carbon should be balanced with affordabilityand economic sustainability. that support skilled jobsapproach that considers economic A balanced supporting long-term economic growth. as increased energy costs or joblosses. A policy approach that includes Oregon’s colder months. Policies thatsignificantly increase energy costs can
compliance costs, those jobs and projects will inevitably be affected.Many Oregon residents are also struggling with affordability, and policies Policymakers should work with industryexperts, labor organizations, and impacts alongside environmentalobjectives A successful outcome regular cost reviews and adjustmentsbased on economic conditions would place a disproportionate burden onworking families, seniors on fixed
that significantly increase energy costs add additional pressure on workingfamilies and seniors on fixed incomes. economic analysts to determinewhether adjustments are needed to would allow Oregon to remaincompetitive for businesses while still help ensure programs remainsustainable. incomes, and small businesses.would also encourage the Council to I
protect both environmental goals andOregon’s workforce. moving toward long-term environmentalgoals. recognize the thousands of skilledworkers across Oregon who help
maintain and operate the energyinfrastructure that keeps communities
running safely and reliably. These arefamily wage jobs that support
households and local economies.my role, I regularly see how sensitive In
many households are to rising utilitycosts, and affordability is already a
concern for many customers.forward, I hope Oregon can pursue Moving
environmental goals in a way that isbalanced with economic
competitiveness, job stability, andenergy affordability for residents.
Matt Noel 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Affordability, nobody needs additional taxes and cost on energy in a timewere affordability is at a all time high No more taxes and regulations. Lowering energy costs and anenvironment that’s easier to do Local and state governments need tolower costs and barriers. Pre school for all. Needs expanding Icurrently don’t benefit it would be huge Deregulation for a more friendlybusiness environment no added cost to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
business with and. Lowering cost onworking class families for our family if we could. energy
Richard Sheperd 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The Prosperity Council will likely look at all sorts of tax breaks/incentives, re-drawing of the UGB's, and other "tools" to address economic development We need to look at four key strategies:1. A Universal Building Exemption - a The success of the Universal BuildingExemption (UBE) would look like the According to Common GroundOregon/Washington Expanding the revolving loan funds forbuilding homes. There was a program Most of what I'm hoping for is to get ridof market distortions that currently exist No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Land-Value-Tax-Analysis_-Simulating-the-Tax-in-Multnomah-County.pdf
in the state. However, the core reason for the lack of economicdevelopment in Oregon is tied to the lack of workforce housing. People shift in all property taxes from beingassessed solely on the basis of land Goldman's selling their empty parkinglots in the middle of Downtown Portland (https://commongroundorwa.org/research-and-studies/), a Universal Building that funded the building of ADU's calledthe Backhome Loan program that within our most amenity-richneighborhoods. I want more neighbors,
want to move to Oregon for all sorts of reasons and bring their businesseshere. However, we have created a distorted market where long-time values. This would occur over 15-20years, so landowners can have time to (which they pay literally less than$20k/year for) to be rebuilt into Exemption would require aconstitutional amendment which would funded almost 100 ADU's with below-market rents with $3M. This program more transit, more successfulbusinesses. We want it so when
landowners can reap the benefits of the hundreds of millions of dollars inpublic investment, entrepreneurs and small businesses pouring billions of adjust. It would ensure people likemyself, living in high-amenity commercial use and housing.Homeowners across Oregon would simply do two things: 1. Allow a split-roll tax, with the split of buildings provided low-interest loans tohomeowners that provided it at 60% AMI Oregonians are innovative and producebetter products, they get to see more of
dollars and millions of hours of sweat equity into their ventures, and thelabor of the millions of Oregonian's, all so that value can be soaked up by neighborhoods, will pay their fair sharewhile giving those who don't have as finally build an ADU in their backyardwithout fear that it will trigger a property trending to zero over 15 years. 2. Adjustthe existing constitution to reassess for 7 years. Rather than rely onexpensive top-down solutions, this was that money in their pocket rather than inthe hands of landlords. We need to
landowners. We must end this tyranny on the working class and ourbusinesses. For instance, the public is subsidizing the construction of the much access to services will see asignificant (10-20%) tax break. It would tax hike, creating hundreds ofthousands of new units without property at sale. 3. Trigger an annual re-assessment to adjust property values a bottom-up approach that can beeasily funded and replicated across the get out of the way of this marketdistortion by shifting our taxes away
82nd Avenue FX line at a cost of $350M, which includes $150M of matchingfunds from the Federal Government. This line will raise the value of spur growth in the UGB at a time whenhousing is desperately needed. This consuming a single inch of farmland orforests. The UBE would look like young incrementally to be solely reliant onland values over the next 15 years. state.Condon, Oregon has done to create In addition, I appreciate what from buildings onto land. The only otherstate that has done this, to great
properties along 82nd Avenue, by my estimate, over $1 Billion. This is not atypo. The value that the project is creating would more than offset the price expands on the work of Lars Doucet,author of "Land is a Big Deal": people in Oregon being able to affordhomes in the neighborhoods they grew To establish the Land ValueCapture/Re-zoning and Permitting "pre-approved" plans for town-homesand ADU's. We should make it possible success, was Pennsylvania, who sawmillions of dollars of redevelopment in
of the project.However, they can't find workers because the housing in my neighborhood Around the corner a small bakery opened from me. https://landisabigdeal.com/. 2. Land-Value Capture for Transit - Capture the up in, while creating thousands of newunits in amenity-rich neighborhoods for authority, the first step is to establish aseparate agency from ODOT called the for homeowners and builders to get apermit for a pre-approved design in their downtowns after implementing asplit-roll property tax. It also lowered the
is too expensive. The cost of land, zoning, and other factors artificiallyrestrict the workforce housing that can be built. Fantastic businesses that value that Public Transit provides byapportioning 6% of property tax revenue retirees, connected by frequent transit.The UBE would ensure areas around Oregon Department of Public Transitand Rail (ODPTR). This is identical to under a day. Otherwise, we are riskingvaluable time. cost of housing, and created space forthousands of businesses. Oregon
have been built up through years of blood, sweat, and tears are closingdown because of the lack of affordable commercial spaces, while millions from all parcels within 2 miles of a high-capacity transit (Light Rail, BRT, Heavy transit are developed into high-rises fullof retail and housing, rather than empty what Virginia did a few years ago. TheLand Value Capture of 6% / 3% of can either use the market to itsadvantage, or constantly try to nickel-
of square feet of vacant commercial across Portland and Oregon sit vacantbecause it's more profitable to own the vacant land than to rent it. In Rail) and 3% from all with frequent busservice (20 minutes or less). This parking lots and automotivedealerships (just look at our current property revenue to go to this newagency, along with re-zoning and and-dime businesses and hard-working families to make minuscule
addition, because of Measure M and Measure 50, the home in SoutheastPortland I live in pays a grossly under-valued property tax. I live 2 blocks would buoy transit across the state,rather than relying on zig-zagging 122nd Ave MAX).Value Capture (LVC) for high-capacity Success of Land- permitting authority to be given to theDepartment of ODPTR, which can then improvements of a highly distortedmarket. I hope reason and a preference
from high-frequency bus service on Division, and next to world-classrestaurants and bars. Meanwhile East Portland residents are paying a income taxes. 3. Re-zoning andpermitting authority for Transit Agencies transit would look like fast, frequentintercity rail that connects all stretches work with local agencies to develop acomprehensive system and funding for a healthy, market-based economywill win out over ideology and
higher tax who have access to fewer amenities, streets without sidewalks,and zero transit service. We are living in a highly irregular, grossly for all parcels within the 1 mile of high-capacity transit stations (Light Rail, Bus of Oregon. We could look more likeGermany, Austria, and Japan by having and redevelopment plans.establish the engineered wood Finally, to preserving a broken system that onlybenefits the few.
distorted market. We must rid ourselves of these market distortions beforewe do anything else. Governor Kotek and the Prosperity Council have a Rapid Transit, Passenger Rail) insideof the UGB - Remove barriers to trains that connect the Metro Region,the Willamette Valley, and even Central industry, the Oregon Pension fundshould work to establish an "wood
Eli Matthews 97504 Organization/Business The Chamber of Medford & Private Business and Civic Non 1 - 20 people Business climate once-in-a-generation chance to address this.The Prosperity Council must establish ambitious goals to reshape the increase housing and commercial retailproduction, while also increasing theI strongly recommend eliminating the Oregon with 20 minute frequency,lowering the cost of living for theOregon reputation would swing and we innovation fund" to invest in newcompanies and startups to developThe Governor, and the State Travel and Tourism through Travel Low tax enbironment Significant No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon must establish a bold new NA
Jackson County ProfessionalServices Profit state's trajectory. We need to foster a more business-friendly environment,as our current reputation is increasingly perceived as anti-business, CAT tax in Oregon and reducing overallbusiness taxes. As one of the highest- would be known as wanting to keepand expand business in our state. Legislature. We need to change ouroverall vision and narrative before its Oregon has been a shining gem.Tourism is one of our strongest infrastrucurre ivnestments and largetraiend workforce targeted tax vision that prioritizes businessdevelopment—not merely through
leading to a loss of companies. This transformation must begin at theleadership level, extending all the way to the governor's office. To tax states in the nation, we risk drivingbusinesses away to states that offer too late. We have been warning foryears...death by a thousand cuts...and industries and we need to endure thatwe are promoting and driving visitation. incentives streamline regulations andinvestments Florida has Florida Job rhetoric but through meaningful actions.This shift needs to be cultivated from
stimulate business growth and expansion, we must focus on several keyareas: - Reducing Barriers: Streamline regulations and eliminate more favorable conditions. By creating amore welcoming tax environment, we here we are. Growth Grant Fund: A public-privatepartnership program that awards funds the top down, starting with leadershipand extending to every level of
unnecessary red tape that hinders business operations. - Tax Incentives:Implement tax cuts and incentives to attract new businesses and can attract and retain companies thatcontribute significantly to our economy. for infrastructure projects and workforcetraining, investing hundreds of millions government and community. It is not toolate to make these changes, but we
encourage existing ones to expand. - Supportive Policies: Create policiesthat promote a thriving business ecosystem, ensuring that companies feel in high-demand jobs. StreamlinedRegulation: A pro-business regulatory must act swiftly and decisively.achieve this vision, we need to focus on To
welcomed and supported in their endeavors.initiatives, we can cultivate a dynamic and prosperous economic landscape By prioritizing these environment aims to acceleratepermitting and approvals for business a few critical areas:Government: It’s essential to hold our - Accountability in
that benefits all residents expansion. government accountable for fostering abusiness-friendly environment. We
must ensure that policies and initiativesfrom the Prosperity Council lead to
tangible changes that benefit oureconomy. - Cultural Transformation:
We need to change the prevailingculture in our state to view business as
a vital solution to many of ourchallenges. By promoting a positive
perception of entrepreneurship, we canencourage innovation and growth. -
Support for Business Expansion: Wemust actively incentivize existing
businesses to expand within Oregon.This includes offering grants, tax
breaks, and other support mechanismsthat encourage companies to grow their
operations here.Enterprises: To further enrich our - Attracting New
Kory 97004 Both The Dirty Cowgirl SaloonWasco, OR Sherman county Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The one thing that would be detrimental to my business is the “PEACE Act”IP28. I am probably the only Liberal business owner in Sherman county, Kill this initiative. I’m personally not ahunter and have never shot an animal My business grows a little bit every yearby people hearing about us or finding The ban on hunting has to fail. My business has been very fortunate tohave been awarded several small I don’t have any opinions to offer on that. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA economic landscape, we need to createNA NA
a fact that I don’t make public knowledge for obvious reasons. I support theGovernor and most of the decisions she makes but this is just a bridge too in my life but I understand how it is away of life for so many. My father hunted us on google or our ODOT signs wehave purchased. Hunters are a big part grants which helped us immensely.Grant programs helped us improve our
far. If this initiative passes, it would devastate my business. I’m located in avery rural farming community with a very small population. We rely on every fall and I spent 20 years workingon an excavation crew that saw more of that growth. business with help funding things likesignage and our HVAC units.
hunters to keep our business going. When our traveler business slowsdown in the fall we have the hunters we can count on. Without them I don’t than half of the crew gone the openingweek of deer and elk season every
know if we would survive through the winter. single year. This is a way of life forthese hunters and the money they put
into the economy is undeniable.
