Asked to articulate in their own words the most important problem facing the state, voters most often mention
issues related to government and leadership. While homelessness is mentioned by 21% of voters as the single-
biggest problem in the state, the following issues, taken together, are mentioned by 50% of voters:
government mismanagement (13%), taxes and tariffs (13%), Democratic leadership (12%), Republican
leadership (7%), and budget cuts (5%).
Voters say key problems are getting worse. Most see the following problems as worsening: overall cost of
living (85%), housing affordability (77%), homelessness (67%), access to affordable healthcare (65%), quality of
K-12 education (61%), availability of quality jobs (54%), and the condition of streets, roads, and highways
(53%).
Consider:
• Slide 1: “Positivity about the direction of the state remains low and has declined since 2025.” (showing
right direction trends)
• Slide 2: “Perceptions about the direction of the state are partisan, with NAV/Other voters and
Republicans less optimistic.” (showing right direction by party)
• Slide 3: “When asked to identify Oregon’s most important problem, voters most often point to political
issues, followed by social and economic issues.” (showing categories of most important problems)
• Slide 4: “Taken together, political issues such as government mismanagement, taxes, tariffs, political
leadership, and funding are viewed as the state’s biggest problems.” (showing breakdown of the state’s
most important problems)
• Slide 5: “When it comes to key problems facing Oregon, most say the problems—especially cost of living
and housing affordability—have been getting worse in recent years.” (showing better, same, or worse on
key problems)
JOB APPROVAL AND UPCOMING ELECTIONS
Voters disapprove of the job performance of their elected leaders. 64% disapprove of Governor Kotek’s
performance, 64% disapprove of the Oregon Legislature’s performance, and 55% disapprove of President
Trump’s performance. While partisanship shapes perceptions of job performance, Republicans are more
approving of their leaders than Democrats: 88% of Republicans approve of President Trump’s performance
while 63% of Democrats approve of Governor Kotek’s performance.
If state legislative elections were today, voters are divided on who they would vote for in their districts. 45%
would vote for the Republican Party candidate and 42% would vote for the Democratic Party candidate. Here
too, there is stronger support among Republicans (92%) for their own party candidates than among Democrats
for their own (75%), with NAV/Other voters leaning Republican (42%).
Consider:
• Slide 6: “Voters disapprove of the job performance of Governor Kotek, the Oregon Legislature, and
President Trump.” (showing job performance ratings)
• Slide 7: “Democratic approval of Governor Kotek is softer than Republican approval of President Trump.”
(showing approval ratings by party)
• Slide 8: “If the election were today, voters are divided on who they would vote for in their district.”
(showing overall preference for legislative candidates)
2 | DHM Research | OBI Legislative Survey | January 2026
