equipped to design and implement clean energy solutions as the demand for energy upgrades
increases.
However, there is an ongoing labor shortage of workers with the skills needed for energy
efficiency and renewable energy work. A jobs analysis conducted for the Oregon Energy
Strategy demonstrated a need for greater employment in several key occupations, including
electricians and HVAC specialists. Expanding the number of qualified professionals who can
complete projects is vital to accelerating energy savings and advancing Oregon’s
decarbonization goals. Investing in these sectors, job types and workers can further the state’s
economic prosperity goals, too.
Energy Trust has identified several challenges related to workforce development for energy
efficiency and renewable energy work that we highlight for the Prosperity Council as it develops
its recommendations for Governor Kotek. Overall, an ongoing need is state-led and statewide
coordination among organizations, agencies and funders like Energy Trust that are focused on
clean energy workforce development. There are several entities engaged in clean energy
workforce development and supporting the implementation of statewide policies. Without a
coordinated strategy and funding, it is challenging for these groups to partner with one another
or tap into existing workforce infrastructure such as pre-apprenticeship programs, workforce
development boards, funding mechanisms, small business administrations and local
organizations. This makes it challenging to scale robust, impactful programs in all regions of the
state. An example of a statewide effort seeking to bridge gaps and avoid duplication of efforts is
the Oregon Clean Energy Workforce Coalition (OCEWC). The OCEWC is a nonprofit created by
Portland General Electric in partnership with several organizations. Energy Trust is actively
engaged with OCEWC to ensure we advance shared goals for statewide support for its clean
energy workforce.
Other notable challenges are related to training and retention for the clean energy workforce.
Bottlenecks around apprenticeship programs limit workforce development, as too few programs
exist and the requirement that there is one journeyman for every apprentice (in carpentry and
HVAC, in particular) slows the production of qualified workers and limits Energy Trust’s ability to
complete projects, save energy and generate clean power. In addition, there is an opportunity
for pre-apprenticeship programs to more consistently connect graduates with employment
opportunities. Workforce instability can also result from challenges retaining workers within the
clean energy industry. In some regions, wages in the energy efficiency industry are less
competitive, causing job seekers to choose to work outside of the industry.
These challenges are amplified in rural areas of Oregon. In some parts of the state, there is a
lack of specialized workers, such as electricians and weatherization installers. This limits the
implementation of cost-effective energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, as
contractors must be brought in from outside of local communities, resulting in higher costs for
travel, lodging and other logistical expenses and diverting funds outside of rural areas. There is
also limited access to training and education programs in rural communities, including a lack of
training providers, spaces for hands-on learning and training materials, making it difficult to build
a local pipeline of qualified energy professionals.
What solution or specific change would you make?
Energy Trust suggests developing a statewide strategy for clean energy workforce
development. This strategy could be state-developed and state-supported, providing uniform
direction and shared goals to all key entities involved in clean energy workforce development:
government agencies, local organizations, educational partners and funders.
Page 3 of 5
