What we don’t like
• Simply cutting taxes across the board is counterproductive. Taxes pay for public services. Cutting
services reduces economic activity, offsetting the stimulus effect of tax cuts. Further, states with
successful economies demand more and better public services. – better schools, safer streets, healthier
and adequately-housed people, good roads, and clean air and water. In a healthy economy, a working
person should be able to buy healthy food, adequate housing, and consistent health care. Navigating
this dynamic requires more than simple solutions.
• At the highest level, this means our state and local governments need to do their job better. In
competing for beneficial growth, we can do a lot better. For example, there is ample evidence that we
massively overpaid and do not have to continue to give data centers hundreds of millions each year in
tax incentives to attract them to Oregon. Yet we continue to do so. This does not deny that data
centers have brought some benefits. Thousands of Oregon businesses provide public benefits every
day without special incentives. We’ve constructed a system in which the incentives are an
entitlement. You get them if you meet the (very) minimum standards regardless of how large the
incentive is. We’ve built an administrative system that incentivizes capturing the surplus at the
expense of other governments and the public at large and allows mega corporations to pit local
governments against each other. And we’ve justified it all with woefully inadequate analysis of public
benefits and costs.
• Oregon’s treatment of foreign “tax haven” income is equally wasteful. Exemption of this income not
only reduces our revenue by hundreds of millions each year, it creates unfair competition for
businesses lacking foreign operations and, because corporate income is allocated to the state by sales,
provides no incentive to locate facilities or jobs in Oregon.
• Similarly, attaching to other federal level incentives to encourage investment, such as bonus
depreciation, does nothing to encourage investments in Oregon. The bulk of the funds just reward
investments in other states.
• Finally, TFO supports adjustments to the estate tax exemption to make it more equitable. However,
doing it in the pursuit of economic development is misguided. Studies clearly show that taxes are a
very minor reason that people choose to move, a conclusion supported by the rapid growth in revenue
from the tax itself.
What we think is missing
• Public investments in higher education. Oregon has starved our public universities for decades. We
know that an educated workforce will produce positive economic benefits over time, but we keep
failing to make those investments.
• Addressing our infrastructure needs. The public has voted down the transportation package, but
without addressing our deteriorating roads and bridges we will do long term damage to the state
economy.
Going forward
• Reducing tax rates in the pursuit of economic growth without dealing with existing wasteful practices
is fiscal folly. The state should eliminate wasteful tax incentives based on a careful analysis of
benefits and costs and awareness of economic opportunities. New or modified incentives should be
structured to reward investments that maximize public benefits rather than just meet minimum
standards. The incentives should recognize the benefits provided by Oregon-based businesses. At
minimum, the incentives should be judged by their ability to efficiently incentivize family-wage jobs,
such as the recently passed jobs credit for qualified businesses.
We read the bills and follow the money
