Business climate rankings are barely worth the paper they are printed on.
Business climate measures have always been a poor guide to building a stronger economy for
everyone. Business climate rankings are negatively correlated with income levels, with high
wage innovation-based industries, and quality of life. In effect, business climate measures treat
a bad climate for workers as a good climate for business. Those calling on Oregon to focus on
improving its rank on the CNBC business climate rating are asking Oregon to strive to be the
“best” place in the US for an imaginary, generic business. Business climate rankings have no
place in creating a plan for prosperity for all.
Today, even though state and local taxes are about two percent of the cost of doing business,
business climate rankings generally have at their core state tax levels as the main indicator of
14
business climate. They rank lower tax states as having better business climates.
It wasn’t always that way. For instance, before the advent of the internet and the proliferation of
rankings for advocacy purposes, Fortune magazine once identified Minneapolis-St Paul as one
of the ten best cities for business, noting in a summary, “painfully high corporate and personal
income taxes go for heavy expenditures on education, welfare, transportation, and parks. The
15
system works.” Fortune recognized the important role of public structures in creating a good
business climate.
The CNBC and Tax Foundation reports presented to the Prosperity Council list states that follow
the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour in roughly half the states ranking in their top 10
listings. Oregon cannot achieve its prosperity goal of creating family wage jobs by seeking to
compete on wages with low minimum wage or anti-union states which only require businesses
to pay workers half Oregon’s minimum wage rate and which offer workers substandard benefits.
These comparisons make no sense for the purported workforce goals of the Council to create
good paying jobs nor do they take into account the increased state spending required to
subsidize low-wage workers’ living expenses (housing, food, medical) so businesses can earn
higher profits at the expense of Oregon taxpayers.
Oregon isn't, and shouldn't try to be, the lowest cost, least restrictive location for any given
business. Following the high road, it should be the premium location for the innovative people
and businesses that want to compete at the high end of the economy.
Conclusion and Recommendations
The Prosperity Council must choose to take the high road to prosperity. Oregon should build on
its strengths to appeal to the smartest, hardest working, best-trained workers and the most
innovative firms to help build a high-skill, high-wage, high-quality of life economy.
14
See https://www.goodjobsfirst.org/wp-content/uploads/docs/pdf/gradingplaces.pdf
15
“Top Ten Cities for Business,” Fortune, October 22, 1990 See
.https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JgXqfU4jC-fjkFMG12MzNrZjVwUE7nvw/view?usp=drivesdk
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 15 of 17
