u Prosperity means more than growth alone. It
means small businesses, entrepreneurs, family-owned OREGON IS POISED FOR
businesses, and larger employers can create more and
GROWTH & NATURAL LEADERSHIP
better-paying jobs. It means our public agencies are
Sectors include:
fiscally stable, and everyone has access to high-quality
education, healthcare, and other essential services. It
means an economy that works for people across the
state, including employers, small business owners, and
workers. To do that, we need to align and streamline our
systems, while staying true to the core values that define AGRICULTURE, FOOD & BEVERAGES
our state and make us special.
u We must change our economic trajectory. To be
among the leading states in the next decade of prosperity,
we need to take advantage of our location, resources, and
talent in areas that are poised for growth. FORESTRY & WOOD PRODUCTS
u This is an inflection point for Oregon, and our
leaders must rise to meet it. We cannot continue to
foster a culture of ambivalence about growth, and we
cannot take growth for granted. We must choose every
day to nurture and support our business ecosystem.
APPLIED/PHYSICAL AI
Including semiconductors and robotics
The Prosperity Council calls on our Governor and the
Legislature to adopt a more audacious vision for Oregon’s
future, one grounded in jobs growth (including support
for entrepreneurs and for the expansion of existing
businesses), accountability, competitiveness, innovation,
SPORTS & OUTDOOR INDUSTRIES
and broad-based prosperity. The state’s economic
Including apparel, spectator events, and tourism
challenges are significant, but so is Oregon’s potential, if
leaders are willing to act boldly and with urgency.
The following recommendations are a result of a statewide
effort to listen, synthesize, and share the views and real
concerns of Oregonians. The Council has worked hard
to achieve balance in our recommendations between LIFE SCIENCES &
immediate fixes and longer-term systemic changes to CLEAN ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES
keep Oregon relevant and prosperous into the future.
Purpose and Process
The Oregon Prosperity Council developed its recommendations through a statewide engagement process designed to
gather input from a broad cross-section of Oregon businesses, community organizations, public agencies, educational
institutions, workforce partners, tribal governments, and residents. The engagement effort combined multiple
methods to capture both structured and qualitative feedback, including a public survey, facilitated listening sessions,
- 11 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
