uncertainty acts as a disincentive against the capital investment required to
maintain competitiveness in national and international markets.
• Longstanding lawful industrial uses should not be penalized because uses
that some believe are incompatible are subsequently sited nearby.
• Oregon can both create more housing and preserve industrial employment,
but it cannot do so by curtailing ordinary industrial activity via regulation
26
every time the planning map changes around an existing facility.
6. Prioritize the active management of state forests
The Council should direct the state to prioritize leveraging its revenue-generating forest
assets through active forest management on acres outside of habitat conservation area
set-asides.
Support:
• Oregon’s management of its state forest land base has historically been
guided by three principles: (1) generation of revenue through timber harvest;
(2) protection of critical habitat; and (3) promotion of recreational
opportunities.
• In 2023, the state voluntarily set aside nearly half of its publicly-owned
timberlands as habitat for various threatened and endangered species in the
pursuit of a federally approved habitat conservation plan and incidental take
permit. Notably, these “habitat conservation areas” (HCAs) are mostly off-
limits to timber harvest, though they are still available for public recreation
and other non-harvest uses.
• Sustainable timber harvest should be prioritized on those acres that fall
outside of the HCAs, and no further constraints should be placed on active
management of state forests in the name of habitat preservation or
ecosystem services.
• Annual harvest targets should be clearly articulated and any shortfalls in
anticipated harvest should be rolled forward to future years. This would
provide greater predictability and certainty for purchasers of state timber and
local governments who depend on the revenue from them.
• Prioritizing harvest on non-HCA acres not only supports the timber industry
and local communities that receive a share of the revenue from state timber
sales, but it also furthers the state’s climate goals by maximizing the carbon
sequestration potential of these forests through a continuous cycle of timber
harvest, conversion of harvested timber into long-lived wood products, and
renewal.
26
OFIC planning analysis.
7
