FRAMEWORK FOR ENSURING FINANCIALLY HEALTHY UTILITIES AND
CERTAINTY FOR CUSTOMERS RELATING TO INVESTMENT IN
ELECTRIC ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE IN OREGON
A framework is needed to facilitate strategic planning, development, construction and investment
in electric energy infrastructure in Oregon to grow our economy, meet state energy goals,
mitigate impacts of extreme weather, address reliability and achieve improved rate certainty for
customers to address affordability. Progress toward development of this framework can be made
with an appropriately scoped Commission-led study.
Foundational Principles
The following principles serve as the foundation of the study:
 Oregon’s regulated utility model plays a critical role in supporting fairly-priced energy,
reliability and resiliency, sustainability, utility responsiveness and enabling economic
growth.
 Oregon has taken important steps to set out policies to ensure improved certainty for
customers, including multi-year rate plans and protection against cost causers.
 Sound energy policy, clear regulatory guidance, transparency, regulatory stability and
regulatory efficiency are necessary to secure long-term energy investment.
 Wildfire affects everyone and Oregon needs solutions that emphasize community
protection, wildfire prevention, responsible investment and rapid recovery.
 Healthy utilities are crucial to economic prosperity, growth and a competitive business
environment.
 Oregon is focused on clean generation development, innovation and resource diversity to
achieve a clean energy future.
 Transmission development is essential for delivering energy and meeting the shared
objective of powering Oregon's economic growth.
 The modern era of demand growth requires new tools and mechanisms to meet load
requirements in a timely and efficient manner, while protecting existing customers.
 We can bolster innovation, research and environmental stewardship by investing in new
technologies and grid solutions, without compromising reliability or affordability,
through robust and aligned data-driven analysis and transparent planning without
overburdening the development of solutions with time-intensive process.
 Customer service, affordability and reliability can be secured by creating a policy and
regulatory environment that enables investments for long-term value, system efficiency
and future rate certainty.
 Establish, enhance and optimize cost-recovery mechanisms and transparent data-driven
metrics to achieve balanced outcomes for customers, utilities and Oregon.
Study Framework
Using the foundational principles identified above, below are categories for collaboration to
secure Oregon’s energy future.
1
