Competing perspectives:
● While the business community supported UGB expansion, Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) reclassification
of nonfarmable land, and modernization of the 50-year-old land use system, agriculture,
conservation, and some regional stakeholders argued the opposite. They called for halting UGB
expansion, protecting Class I and II agricultural soils, prioritizing redevelopment of underused urban
land, and addressing land speculation driven by repeated threats to EFU and UGB protections.
Additionally, some stakeholders called for increased funding to conserve and protect the state’s
natural resources.
5. Create a more integrated workforce system and drive job growth in
growing sectors
Feedback emphasized the need for stronger alignment between workforce development efforts and
employer needs. Respondents highlighted opportunities to increase employer involvement in workforce
planning, improve coordination among state agencies, educational institutions, and industry partners, and
expand existing technical training pathways. Many also expressed support for better systems to track
program outcomes and effectiveness. Commonly cited barriers to workforce participation and retention
included childcare affordability and availability, as well as concerns related to Oregon's Paid Leave
program.
Broadly supported themes:
● Align workforce training programs with industry needs and across agencies: Stakeholders
repeatedly emphasized the need to update or create programs that better align research and
workforce pipelines with the needs of priority sectors. The most common suggestion was expanding
Career and Technical Education (CTE) from middle school through community college. Suggested
priority sectors ranged from technology, artificial intelligence, and advanced manufacturing to
agriculture and natural resources. Several cited models from other states, including Idaho’s
LAUNCH program, North Carolina’s training reimbursement model, and Mississippi’s K–12
turnaround efforts.
● Increase coordination across workforce agencies and partners: The lack of coordination among
workforce agencies, employers, regional partners, and research partners was frequently cited as a
challenge to cultivating and developing the workforce businesses need. Suggestions included
consolidating Oregon’s workforce systems, mandating interagency data-sharing agreements,
improving the dissemination of information about existing training/workforce support programs,
and streamlining access to workforce agencies.
○ When asked who needs to act to assist in talent development, survey respondents offered
examples of a ‘grow-your-own’ model, suggesting that employers and education (K-12,
Community colleges, and ESD’s) work together to co-design training models for in-need
industries.
● Invest in higher education as workforce infrastructure. Many sources recommended treating
Oregon’s public universities and community colleges as the core workforce and economic
development infrastructure. Feedback highlighted comparatively low state investment in higher
education and called for stronger alignment among postsecondary programs, applied research, and
Oregon’s workforce needs. Suggested priorities included expanding programs tied to high-growth
occupations, supporting stackable credentials and flexible reskilling pathways, strengthening AI,
Appendix A. Prosperity Council Engagement Report ú June 2026
14
