3 . P E R M IT T I N G & R E G U L AT I O N S
projects from being delayed indefinitely and should include accountability measures such as public
reporting and partial fee refunds when deadlines are missed. These deadlines should extend universally to
all economic development permits, and not only those meeting HB 4084’s capital investment thresholds,
which would ensure predictable timelines become the standard across Oregon’s permitting system rather
than the exception.
Reduce regulatory and administrative burdens by 20% by 2029, by removing outdated and duplicative
regulations, which should improve government efficiency and reduce spending. Frontline employees should
play a role in identifying regulations, processes, and reporting requirements that create inefficiencies or no
longer serve their intended purpose, while decisions regarding regulatory changes should remain subject
to leadership review. Agencies should leverage permit and streamlining analyses required under HB 4084,
which directed key agencies to identify unnecessary steps, barriers, and obsolete processes, as a primary
input for meeting this reduction target.
The state should also establish a regulatory structure to ensure reforms support economic growth while
maintaining protections for public health, essential services, and the environment. Consistent with the
multi-agency coordination structure established by HB 4084’s Joint Permitting Council, examples include
coordinating environmental permitting across state agencies so applicants do not need to submit duplicative
information for air quality, water quality, wetlands, and land use reviews; implementing consolidated or
parallel agency review processes rather than sequential reviews; and/or eliminating duplicative reporting
requirements across agencies.
Adopt a market-based Cap and Invest program for greenhouse gas emissions. Upon implementation,
the Governor should repeal the Climate Protection Program. Align Oregon’s program with labor standards
consistent with California and Washington’s Cap and Invest approaches: auction revenues allocated for public
works and infrastructure should require family sustaining wages, registered apprenticeship participation, and
adherence to nondiscrimination and workforce inclusion standards.
BEST PRACTICES
Virginia’s Office of Regulatory Management (ORM) was established in 2022 to bring consistency to
regulatory procedures. ORM’s objectives were to reduce regulatory requirements by 25%, improve efficiency
in the regulatory and permitting approval process, and increase regulatory transparency through benefit-cost
analysis. After three years, Virginia reduced 26% of regulatory requirements across the state.
PermitSF in San Francisco modernized its permits by consolidating permitting systems, utilized artificial
intelligence to support application reviews, and created a more transparent and user-friendly process. The effort
has reduced delays and helped business and development projects move more efficiently while maintaining
regulatory standards.
- 23 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
