Infrastructure and Place-Based Development
As an anchor institution, OSU is prepared to support infrastructure and real estate
development that enables economic growth. This includes innovation districts, research
facilities, and industry-adjacent spaces that support company growth, talent attraction, and
regional development. Coordination between state, local, and institutional partners can
maximize the economic impact of these investments.
Rural Prosperity Through the OSU Statewides
The OSU Statewide Public Service Programs — OSU Extension Service, Oregon
Agricultural Experiment Station, and the Oregon Forest Research Laboratory — provide
transformational research and education to support Oregon's vital agriculture and forest
products industries. The institution’s research forests and fourteen agricultural experiment
and research station locations ensure Oregon's commodities thrive, supporting our state and
local economies.
OSU Extension Service is a statewide asset that advances economic prosperity in rural
communities by supporting small businesses, producers, workforce skills, and community
capacity. Extension provides a direct pathway for translating research into practice and
stands ready to play an expanded role in implementing statewide economic strategies in
rural and resource-dependent regions.
OSU Extension programs reach approximately 90,000 youth annually through 4-H,
supported by more than 8,000 volunteers and over 600 employees, providing a direct and
scalable pathway to implement statewide economic strategies in rural and resource-
dependent regions.
Closing
OSU is committed to supporting the successful implementation of the Oregon Economic
Development Strategy and stands ready to serve as a strategic partner. Leveraging OSU’s
capabilities across workforce development, sector strategy, innovation, regulatory analysis,
infrastructure, and rural prosperity can strengthen execution and improve long-term
outcomes for Oregon. OSU is prepared to work with the state to define clear, measurable
commitments aligned with shared goals, including workforce-aligned work-based learning,
employer-engaged upskilling, applied industry research and pilots, and startup creation and
scale-up support that directly contribute to job creation and private-sector investment across
Oregon.
We appreciate the opportunity to contribute and look forward to continued collaboration as
the plan advances.
4
