Recommendations to Advance Oregon’s Prosperity Roadmap and
Modernize Oregon’s Workforce Leadership
Executive Summary
Governor Kotek’s Prosperity Roadmap sets near-term administrative actions and a 2027 legislative framework to retain and
grow businesses, catalyze job creation, and accelerate statewide economic growth. Oregon’s workforce system—governed
by the Workforce and Talent Development Board (WTDB) and delivered through nine Local Workforce Development Boards
(LWDBs) and WorkSource Oregon centers—offers a platform to align governance, performance, and industry engagement
with the Roadmap (via the approved 2024–2028 WIOA Combined State Plan.)
This brief proposes eight actions in two time horizons (≤6 months and the 2027 legislative session). The proposed actions
borrow proven elements from other states where public workforce system resources, including TANF, SNAP E&T, and WIOA
programs are aligned under a streamlined state/regional governance structure with unified performance reporting.
The recommendations also introduces a new regional industry council model staffed by LWDBs. Councils consolidate
industry engagement across K–12, community colleges, and universities, creating a single employer-led table to identify
needs, inform curricula, scale work-based learning, and measure results.
Recommendations
1. Support Prosperity Programs (LC130)
The $15M state investment in workforce development will support not only preparing people to qualify for
employment but will also support talent development within existing companies to ensure they have the
talent needed to stay in business and/or potentially expand.
2. Clarify & Modernize Executive Order 13-08
Rationale: EO 13-08’s intent—reducing fragmentation, empowering LWDBs, reestablishing roles and
responsibilities—remains sound but needs modernization to align with the Roadmap.
Near-term (≤6 months): Issue an EO 13-08 Modernization Addendum that (a) codifies the roles and
responsibilities of LWDBs as accountable resource coordinators and conveners for sector partnerships;
(b) clarifies WTDB’s statewide policy authority and multi-agency implementation; and (c) creates a joint
performance compact linked to Roadmap KPIs.
2027 session: Codify WTDB multi-partner policy authority, unified reporting, co-investment rules, and
data-sharing standards across public workforce system partners, including HECC-OWI, OED, DHS, VR,
BOLI and Business Oregon.
3. Streamline State-Level Governance & Program Administration
Rationale: WTDB’s Continuous Improvement Committee (CIC) calls for clearer authority and exploration
of WIOA reorganization; the Roadmap adds a Chief Prosperity Officer (CPO) and Prosperity Council to
anchor accountability.
Near-term (≤6 months): Stand up an Office of Workforce System Performance to unify policy
implementation, performance management, and reporting across programs; launch a unified scorecard.
2027 session: Consider administrative consolidation of programs that make up Oregon’s public
workforce system.
4. Align TANF Employment & Training with WIOA (Borrowing Best Practices)
Rationale: Aligning TANF E&T with WIOA improves co-enrollment, case management, and outcomes.
Texas administers TANF Choices through the Workforce Commission and local Boards; Florida
integrates TANF/SNAP E&T in its Combined Plan; Michigan’s PATH is co-run by DHHS and LEO;
Colorado Works integrates with workforce centers.
