Brian Stewart 97221 Both Electrify Now Non-profit NA Cleanenergy 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Clean energy technologies and infrastructure are a major growth industryaround the world and are a huge economic opportunity for Oregon to build Adopt policies designed to makeOregon attractive to the clean energy Oregon becomes a leader in cleanenergy and manufacturing projects The OPUC must put more pressure onUtilities and developers to implement HB 2021 The Climate ProtectionProgram The Clean Fuels Program Texas has the highest deployment rateof wind, solar and batteries - and gets No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The war in Iran demonstrates theissues that surround fossil fuels as an Slidedeck-The-Electrotech-Revolution-PDF.pdf
advocacy tax revenues and offer safe and high paying jobs to the workforce. Thereare existing barriers which include limited electricity capacity and technology manufacturing marketthrough siting, tax and permitting Investment in Oregon’s clean energyeconomy increase significantly, driving grid enhancements and build newclean energy projects. State The Community Solar Program ETOand other utility energy efficiency these projects deployed almost 10xfaster than Oregon. California and outdated model of energy deploymentwhich relies on polluting and extractive
infrastructure, transmission planning gridlock, complex permitting for newprojects, and the need for clear, predictable policies to drive private benefits without compromising landuse and environmental protections. tax revenue and job creation andenabling more incentives for consumer legislature must create a transmissionauthority to eliminate bottlenecks to programs and funding State rebate andincentive programs for EVs, heat Texas have deployed Virtual PowerPlants at scale to reduce grid peak processes, massive shipping overheadand susceptibility to corrupt powers and
investment and market scale. We need state leadership and policies thatprioritize investments in this lucrative sector to drive economic growth and Create a state Transmission Authorityto support transmission investment and adoption of clean energy solutions likeEVs, Heat Pumps and Induction Stoves, clean energy projects and acceleratetransmission modernization and pumps, solar + storage, medium/heavy-duty vehicles, and community capacity issues and lower transmissionrestraints. Other states are investing priviledged, concentrated wealth. Theclean energy revolution is seeing global
reduce the risk that jobs and investment in the clean energy sector could goto other states. planning.large electric off-takers like Data Create policies that ensure which have enormous co-benefits likelowering air pollution, reducing capacity increases.legislature must also maintain and The state renewables heavily in transmission, clean energy,and grid modernization California’s investments that are outpacing fossilfuel investments, distributing energy
Centers bear the costs of grid capacityincreases required, honor land and household energy costs and loweringhealth risks to the Oregon population. expand climate and clean energypolicies. State agencies must be EV incentives and Massachusetts’clean heat programs are good models creation equitably around the world,creating good jobs, reducing air and
water use regulations, and offer otherpublic benefits in return for siting and adequately funded to manage anddeploy incentive programs efficiently. for deployment of clean technologiesand job creation. water pollution and reducing globalhealth risks. Oregon should be
permitting priveleges.transmission and implement grid- Modernize Education and workforce partners toensure training aligns with growing aggressive in becoming a leader in thisindustry to ensure our state benefits
enhancing technologies to maximizeexisting capacity, accelerate clean energy jobs.and the state legislature needs to Local governments from the financial and environmentalopportunities from this epic
deployment of the backlog of renewableprojects and attract new renewable provide the incentives and policycertainty that will attract clean energy transformation of our global energysystems.
investments in the state.strengthen existing climate and clean Maintain and investments, technology, manufacturingand jobs.
energy policies, including the ClimateProtection Program and HB 2021
(100% Clean Electricity law), which arefoundational to market certainty.
Provide long-term policy certainty forclean energy and decarbonization to
help attract global businesses thatneed access to clean energy.
Josh Parks 97221 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth SB 1507 Block it No QSBS tax stifling the startupeconomy in Oregon Govenor QSBS Texas is booming with business andstartups due to its tax-favorable No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
policies. As a med tech entrepeur I'mseriously considering moving to Texas
because of the innovation economy andtax incentives
Nate Stokes 97027 Both Climate Jobs Oregon Non-profit Metals andMachinery NA 1000+ people Workforce Oregon’s clean energy sector as defined by the U.S. Department of Energysustained over 67,000 in-state jobs in 2023. In-state electricity generation Oregon’s labor movement has begun tolay the foundation to address both of In the short term: 1.ESTABLISHCOMPREHENSIVE GOLD STAR LABOR All of the above would need to worktogether to accomplish our goals. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
supported 11,185 jobs, 83% of which were from solar, wind, andhydropower; fuels employed 5,720 jobs, mostly in agriculture and forestry these crises simultaneously. With thepassage H.B. 2021 (2021), H.B. 4059 STANDARDS FOR OREGON’S GREENUNION TRANSITION INCLUDING:
(65.7%) as well as professional services (19.1%); and transmission,distribution, and storage supported 13,159 jobs. Nearly 80% of electric (2022), H.B. 3031 (2023), and mostrecently H.B. 4080 (2024), Oregon’s a.PREVAILING WAGEREQUIREMENTS b.EMPLOYER-
generation jobs and 91% transmission jobs were utilities, construction,and manufacturing positions. As a result, the potential for significant labor movement has helped secureintegral gold-star labor standards on PAID BENEFITS REQUIREMENTSc.APPRENTICESHIP UTILIZATION
emissions reduction and the creation of a robust, union clean energyeconomy remains unfulfilled, moving forward only in fits, starts, and an covered projects across the cleanenergy economy. The passage of H.B. REQUIREMENTS d.PRE-APPRENTICESHIP GRADUATE
abundance of policy that lacks forward momentum.Oregonians are not only facing the climate crisis, they are facing an Everyday working 2021 (2021) and H.B. 4059 (2022)together represented a watershed UTILIZATION REQUIREMENTSe.TARGETED OUTREACH,
inequality crisis as well. The state’s cost of living is at an all-time high, andthe average Oregonian earns just above a living wage to support moment in the buildout of a union greeneconomy in Oregon, paving the way for RECRUITMENT, AND RETENTION OFUNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS
themselves – as long as they have no partner, children, elders, or otherdependents. In fact, “[i]n 2023, more than one-fourth (28%) of all jobs paid the more ambitious standards put forthin H.B. 3031 (2023) and H.B. 4080 f.BUYg.SKILLED AND TRAINED AMERICAN REQUIREMENTS
less than $20 per hour, and the majority (57%) of all jobs in Oregon paidless than $30 per hour.” In fact, the 10 of the 20 most common occupations (2024). H.B. 3031 (2023) is particularlynotable as it contains model language WORKFORCE REQUIREMENTSh.SELF PERFORMANCE OF WORK
in Oregon pay less than $20 per hour. Yet while the average Oregonianmakes only 15% more now than they did four decades ago, wages for the for labor standards on any legislation inOregon, raising the floor for high road STANDARDS i.RESPONSIBLECONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION
top one percent have grown 345% in that time. jobs as the state moves forward with itsgreen transition and beyond. This high j.PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENTSk.LABOR PEACE AGREEMENTS
bar was further codified through thepassage of H.B. 4080 (2024), which l.COMMUNITY BENEFITSAGREEMENTS In the near term:
took this established precedent andapplied it to the emerging industry of 1.CREATE MORE EFFICIENT SITINGAND PERMITTING PROCESSES WITH
offshore wind. In other words, thesefour bills are helping deliver on the LABOR AT THE TABLE TO ENSUREFASTER CLEAN ENERGY
promise of high-quality jobs with familysustaining wages not just for the green DEVELOPMENT 2.MAKE OREGON ALEADER IN SUSTAINABLE DATA
economy’s present, but for its future.These legislative wins, paired with CENTER BUILDOUT 3.PROTECTUNION JOBS & CREATE HEALTHIER
Joy Gillespie 97233 Both Llc Private Business and NA NA Business climate The biggest barriers seem to be excessive taxes, regulations and costs Oregon’s existing prevailing wage ratelaw – which defines the State’sStop expanding government WORKPLACES BY HELPINGMANUFACTURING FACILITIES MEETSuccess looks like clean streets, Local government & legislators Oregon needs a complete overhaul. My sister moved to FL and everything No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
ProfessionalServices that hinder development and expanding climate and social programs &committees above everything. Portland is the opposite of business friendly. committees and social programs. Startinvesting in things that improve a mental health and drug programs,being tough on crime, cut regulations The corruption seems to run deep seems to run better for bothbusinesses and communities. My son
business environment. and taxes for businesses and housingdevelopment and audit multnomah moved to NC and the same is true there.
county for the last 10 years and holdcorrupt officials responsible.
Alice Dale 97201 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Unaffordability of higher education More taxes dedicated to highereducation, more student financial Higher graduation rates from collegeand community colleges Legislature, business by offering paidtraining programs to current workers Community college vocationalprograms, BOLI training programs In Oregon and other states there aregood joint labor-management Yes Business climate There is a need to streamlineand accelerate construction Too many large businesses feelentitled to tax break, almost indefinitely. Business tax breaks need to bemoderated and need to be based on Permitting and other regs have beensimplified and approved more quickly. All of these groups have a part -legislature, state agencies, community OR should seriously look at theMittelstand programs in Europe. This I understand that Detroit, New Orleansand Brooklyn have experimented Yes Tools for growth Some of the issues covered in the lasttwo sections apply here also. I think one I believe any government expenditurefor business needs to require the We have increasing per capita income,job training programs (earn to learn) Legislature, businesses, educ/trainingpartners OR's economic development programsshould be retooled to focus on the Similar responses to earlier questions -we should look to states that have high Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I think AI needs serious attention by thestate. Nationally, nothing is happening NA
assistance and more "earn to learn"training programs with employer funding programs that could be expanded.Allowing workers to improve job skills permitting. Some taxexpenditures make sense There seems to be a notion that letterindividual tax payers foot the costs/carry actual creation of long-term, well-paidjobs. The tax incentives government OR becomes more attractive toinnovative small and medium colleges, higher ed, local governments,employers and training partners was studied by Pac NW governmentsand businesses and a report issued in successfully with something akin toinnovation centers. These could be of the biggest problems is good linkagebetween education and business and creation of long-term, high paying jobs.This needs to be explicit and tracked. I are common place and we seesubstantial growth and interest in small items indicated above. Getting acompany to locate in OR is only a good quality of life standards. Not businessmodels like CNBD and Tax Foundation to provide guardrails for citizens orworkers (although it is in Europe). AI
while they are working is key. Thenbeing able to move into in-demand jobs such as R&D for small andmedium sized business the burden when companies makehuge profits. That is unacceptable. provides should go to clusters of smalland medium sized collaborative businesses who work togethercollaboratively. Large corporations (unions, BOLI, etc.) 1990. All the benefits still apply today.This could dramatically grow small and looked at. ongoing training programs. would also require jobtraining/upskilling (including in AI) for and medium businesses that locatinghere because they want to be in Oregon deal if our citizens' lives are improved. that applaud states that pay the federalminimum wage of $7.25/hour. Those has huge potential for productivity gainsand benefits to workers with upskilling
with their employer. clusters. Government shouldnot, however, try to entice Corporations need to contribute a largershare of taxes to the state and local business that will share investments inR&D, for example. have fewer tax breaks and actuallycontribute taxes. And, they put more medium sized businesses andincrease business-paid training and schools and businesses andgovernment - putting guardrails in place. specifically. are poverty level wages. Studies thathighlight those states should be given and job promotions. It also has thepotential to decimate the workforce and
businesses to OR by payingfor items they would have paid governments they operate in. funds into public-private partnershipsfor ongoing upskilling of their workforce. apprenticeship programs. NO consideration by this Council. leave thousands of workersunemployed which is huge problem
for themselves or things thatdo not create long-term high- and cost for the state. This can beavoided with a thoughtful plan which OR
paying jobs. Too many taxbreaks starve local needs to be put into place ASAP.
communities of neededrevenue to pay for education,
social services and quality oflife investments. We need to
honestly assess the ROIwhen we give tax breaks to
large businesses, inparticular.
Yelena Nowak 97236 Organization/Business Oregon Trawl Commission Public Food andBeverage Fishingindustry 1 - 20 people Business climate The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality's seafood processingwastewater requirements are the most strict in the country; some elements Simplify the requirements. Ensure thatthe seafood industry is able to comply The Oregon seafood plants continue tooperate and process seafood The state agency DEQ, possiblylegislature NA NA Yes Tools for growth NA The lack of resources to promoteseafood in the state and domestic Authorize marketing funds to theOregon Deptartment of Agriculture More Oregon seafood is sold in Oregonand domestically rather than overseas Legislature The Market Access program at theOregon Department of Agriculture is NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
of those requirements are unattainable (heavy metals). Massive capitalinvestments will be required from seafood processors. Smaller-size with them. successfully and are in full compliancewith the DEQ's wastewater markets doing a remarkable job in supportingOregon's food and agricultural
processors would likely not be able to afford the equipment. requirements. producers. Their efforts can bestrengthened if they receive funding to
support domestic marketing/promotionwork.
Margaret Retz 97034 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Budget limitations aside there is a friction point where there are competingviewpoints rather than a unified agreement with the stakeholders to work I think those on the Prosperity Councilmust put Party goals aside and agree to There may be consensus on gettingsome short term goals completed. The members of the council for sureshould be part of the process. The Work Force training in the areas ofcompromise, in understanding the why Best Practices research on buildingbetter ways to be productive and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
together to get plans in place to move forward quickly on pressing needs. work on solving the problem notthinking about staying in power. Money will still be a huge problem, butThe Prosperity Council must do its work funding from the legislature needs to bea priority; oversight by the auditor, behind the work, working in teams toproblem solve, etc. achieve the goals in government. Thisis always an area that will need
as best it can even with cash flowissues. financial officials and training formembers in conflict resolution and evaluation to learn what worked andwhat did not work or could have been
communication. better.
Dan Dias 97123 Organization/Business The City of Hillsboro,representing approximately Public NA We workwith and 500-1000 people Business climate Incentives must provide a desired business benefit. Cost impacts/benefit tostate and local jurisdictions must also be balanced. Critically competitive Support and expansion of programs forsite readiness such as Regionally The reestablishment and utilization ofthe Research and Development Tax Oregon Legislature, Business Oregon,Local Jurisdictions. Regionally Significant Industrial Sites,Enterprise Zone, Strategic Investment NA Yes Tools for growth NA The lack of attractive and servicedindustrial sites is a challenge that the Statutorily bring in the lands identified inthe Oregon CHIPS ACT in 2023. Initial infrastructure plans would beadopted, infrastructure projects would Oregon Legislature, Governor, LocalJurisdictions. NA Greater Phoenix industrial lands efforts,efforts to support Intel's new campus in Yes Workforce There is a continuing need to supportskills gap trainings and career Continue to fund and support programslike Future Ready Oregon, and other Additional funding for programdevelopment and operations, and Legislature, state government, localgovernment, workforce development Future Ready Oregon, PortlandCommunity College Future Connect NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
114,000 residents, 5,000businesses, and a acrossmany incentives such as a Research and Development Tax Credit for multipletarget industries are needed. Local jurisdictions bear a significant cost of Significant Industrial Sites isencouraged. Reestablishment of a Credit by entities doing R&D in Oregon.Additional funding resulting in industrial Program and Gainshare. State can address. Having adequatesites is a key enabler for economic be underway and business expansionand recruitment wins would be New Albany, Ohio. pathways, and provide opportunities forun and under employed individuals. programs like Portland CommunityCollege's Quick Start Program continued engagement with industrypartners to track changes in workforce partners, industry partners.
significant concentration ofOregon's High Tech and industrieswith an primary recruitment and expansion incentives (Enterprise Zone, StrategicInvestment Program) primarily because of the they are property tax Research and Development Tax Creditis warranted. The State must also sites brought into development readystatus, or under development. State of prosperity as it allows for economicgrowth and diversification. This is announced progressing toward the joband revenue projections mentioned positioning Oregonians for jobs intarget industries. skill needs.
Advanced Manufacturingecosystem. emphasis toTechnology, abatements or reductions. Additionally, local jurisdictions often carry theinitial costs of industrial site readiness, though programs like the participate financially in extendedproperty tax abatement programs which Oregon to use a portion of income taxproceeds from successful projects to especially true in the Portland MetroRegion, where the average industrial above. This would result in additionaleconomic activity across the region and
BioScience,and Food Regionally Significant Industrial Sites Program provides state levelassistance when and where applicable. bring a significant return on investmentto the state. reimburse local jurisdictions forextended property tax abatement parcel is approximately 2.5 acres insize, and there are extremely limited the state estimated at about 30,000additional jobs.
andBeverage. programs. sites over 20 acres in size. Anabscence of parcels larger than 50
acres in size also precludes majoreconomic catalyst projects from
locating or expanding in our State. Adirth of adequate industrial sites also
increases the cost of site developmentand operations, which hinders
competitiveness with other regionswhere this is not a constraint. The
barrier to Hillsboro and the westside ofthe region addressing this is prior
legislation (HB4078) which removed2200 acres of industrially planned land
which could be generating up to 30,000living wage jobs, and between $6.3 and
Noah Bernstein 97203 Both Bernstein's Bagels Private Food and NA 1 - 20 people Workforce General affordability of Portland for the working class. Portland prides itself Rent freeze and infill within Portland of Portland having a core population Legislature and local governments, but Preschool for All. The ideas behind I have my eyes on Mamdani in NY No NA NA $12.7B in net State Annual Revenue.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Beverage on the small businesses and individual makers, artists, and musicianswho make up the core of the culture here. And despite my company paying affordable housing (not an expansion ofurban growth boundary). A public option working locally for small/medium sizedlocal companies, being on a public it would take all of us to push backagainst the pitfalls of capitalism Prosper Portland (the execution ofwhich have been wildly disappointing).
over twice the minimum wage, our employees struggle with rising rents,making purchasing a home and building equity in the city where they work for Portland small businesses to insureour employees so that we aren't all health insurance option that wouldfollow them to any employer, starting
and live well out of reach. Skyrocketing individual insurance means somego uninsured, and setting up a employee insurance program is somehow going at it alone. Stop the attacks onPreschool for All; it passed by a nearly families if they want to without having toexit the workforce, being able to raise
even more expensive for them. Lack of affordable childcare and preschoolmean we lose core employees when they start a family because it's just 2:1 margin and should be implementedto its fullest potential. Protections for their families in a house they own, andwith more expendable income to go out
that much cheaper to leave the job market all together. The inflation ofgrocery prices shows no sign of slowing down, and food costs and payroll commercial tenants and limits on rentincreases/NNN so that Portlanders can to enjoy a thriving restaurant scene or togo see shows at new locally-run music
to restaurants is making it more and more expensive to go out to eat andenjoy the food scene we ourselves are a part of. start the next great legacybusiness/restaurant/venue without the venues.
threat of personal bankruptcy (alsowould help with food/bev costs). Stop
giving tax incentives to largemultinational corporations that aim to
crush the nature and spirit of Portland.
Karl G. Walrod 97408 Both Wildish Sand & Gravel Co. Private NA Sand &Gravel, 101-500 people Business climate Oregon's new Climate Protection Program 1. Repeal the Climate ProtectionProgram 2. Reduce the Charge for Hopefully, more jobs, better roads andgetting people to want to come and live, The Governor of the State of Oregon! Right now at this time, we are drivingbusiness away from Oregon Oregon needs to have a CAP & TradeProgram for the CPP.. They should join No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Construction,Asphalt, credits from $136 to what California &Quebec, Washington or RGGI (Which work in the State of Oregon California, Quebec, Washington andhave a program that works for all.
Mining represents a group of Eastern States inthe US. Oregon's rate is the most
expensive cost of carbon creditanywhere in the World!
Sasha Keller 97218 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate the real problems in our state are related to income inequality andaffordability, not a more business friendly climate. taxing the rich and investing in publictransit, health, education, and shutting Wealth taxed funds being put into theeconomy via investing in public transit, legislature and local govt NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Putting public money into privatestadium renovations is cancerous NA
down the CEI hub is the true path toprosperity. health, education. not putting funds tostadium renovations...
Will Hollingsworth 97210 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Multifamily Housing Development with Urban Growth Boundaries Increase allowed height of single-egress/single-stair multifamily housing Building code amended to allow single-stair buildings up to six stories/65 ft with Oregon Building Code Division. NA Senate Bill 5156 (Washington),Minnesota Single-Exit Stairway No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please consult the Center for Buildingin North America for ways to improve Minnesota_Single-Exit_Stairway_Apartment_report.pdf
to at least six-stories/65 ft. Residentialelevator standards with minimal opportunities for local officialsto mandate lower heights or demand Apartment Building Study the built environment in Oregon whilealso reducing the cost to build new infill
Washington/Europe. excessive right-of-way requirementswithin the Portland Metro. Elevator code housing.
amended to harmonize withWashington/Europe.
Chandra LeGue 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth In my experience, a strong economic force in Oregon is a healthyenvironment. Our forests, rivers, natural areas support a robust outdoor A number of policy changes at the statelevel could help address the above Protected drinking watersheds, an endto logging of mature and old growth The Governor’s office and statelegislature should lead in developing Oregon’s Natural Climate Solutions billand Natural and Working Lands Fund The passage of HB 4134 in Oregonwas a good step forward for wildlife No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
recreation industry. However, development, logging, mining, climatechange, and biodiversity loss threaten this economy. The Prosperity barrier:protections for mature and old-growth Advocating for permanent forests on federal lands, and additionalfunding for locally- supported land and new policies to protect Oregon’s publiclands and forests, and should call on were both important forest steps forsupporting better practices on private conservation and will hopefully be afunding model for other states. Several
Council should recommend the strongest possible protections forOregon’s public lands (local, state, and federal), and should include forests on federal and state lands;Protection of drinking watersheds on water conservation and restorationefforts. Oregon’s congressional delegation todo the same. lands. The state should invest more inthis program. On federal lands states have adopted 30 x 30 targets. Butsuccessful models must go beyond
recommendations for investing in natural climate solutions, such asprotections for our mature and old-growth forests. The Trump public lands; Establishment andinvestment in conservation funds; (approximately 50% of Oregon's land ismanaged by the federal government), targets to actual implementation ofsuch efforts. Some interesting models
administration’s efforts to exploit natural resources on federal public landsrepresent one of the greatest threats to a healthy environment in Establishing new state parks andconservation lands; and Investment in the Prosperity Council shouldrecommend strong support for current for outdoor equity funds exist in severalstates. And incentives to naturally store
generations. The Prosperity Council should recommend strong oppositionto these efforts. wildlife corridors and habitatconnectivity. conservation measures, including theNorthwest Forest Plan, the Roadless carbon (with a host of other benefits) inforest ecosystems can also work.
Rule, and protections for mature andold-growth forests on Western Bureau
of Land Management Lands. TheTrump administration’s efforts to
privatize public lands and liquidateOregon natural resources is not in line
with the values of Oregonians.
Pat Smith 97336 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Creating a less time consuming training pathway for people to developskills and earn a credential to allow for them to work in the public funded Reduce the mandated credentialsBachelor degrees for employment in More people involved in the earlylearning sector of child development. Legislature and local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Creating more regulations andmandatory taxes/fees does not promote NA
early learning. the early learning sector so pay canmirror qualifications/organizations and Higher outcomes for children uponcompletion of program. positive outcomes for localcommunities and businesses. Most
not compete with state/federalsponsored schools. mom and pop locations just barely getby. Instituting mandatory leave polices
just grew a workforce that can take 6months of the year off while the
employer pays them not to be there andnot able to hire replacements to keep
their business operating. Effectivelycausing another business to go
Jennifer Lynch 97702 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The lack of venture capital along every vector – venture capital funds, A $100 million state investment in 2,500 new jobs paying at least Legislature needs to allocate funding The Oregon Growth Board and Oregon https://www.ohiocapitalfund.com/ Yes Workforce NA Lack of confidence in our public Reinstate the Quality Education A 15% increase in NAEP scores across Executive branch must guide and NA Colorado's Department of Education No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA bankrupt or close forever.NA NA
venture capital fund managers, experienced VC-backed executives – isleaving money on the table for Oregon. Private capital is used to hire people private capital with the specificrestriction of Oregon investment, unlike $150,000 per year in 3 years Innovation Council are powerful andunder-utilized ways to grow Oregon education system is hamperingbusiness migration, hiring and Commission to make a set of short-term recommendations WHILE ALSO the board prioritize; ODE must be ready to support has frameworks for school quality,curriculum quality, attendance and
and make long-term capital investments, both of which are enormouslybeneficial the state. the current mandate of the OregonGrowth Board. Expected leverage from innovation and employment. business growth; work-from-homewhite collar workers are relocating in taking immediate steps to refocusOregon's school districts on graduation improvement
outside Oregon is 4x. search of better schools. educational outcomes: Repeal the lastdecade of unfunded and restricted-
funded curriculum mandates;Consolidate all school districts with
fewer than 500 students; Greatly restrictopt-out provisions of state
assessments; Fund high-dosesummer tutoring; Fund districts based
on hours attendance not ADMw (that is,based on attendance not enrollment).
Rick Turoczy 97202 Both PIE (Portland IncubatorExperiment) Non-profit Technology NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon's startup ecosystem is caught in an increasingly untenableposition: we invest public and private resources into building companies Three things:QSBS conformity. At minimum, restore 1. Restore Oregon's - Founders who exit a company inOregon start their next company in - Legislature: QSBS restorationrequires legislative action. The - Oregon InC (Innovation Council) andthe SBIR/STTR matching programs — - Washington fought off the same QSBSproposal (mentioned above) — but the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I've been working in, on, and around theOregon startup community for 30 years. NA
here, then create tax policy that disincentivizes investment while alsoencouraging founders to leave the state before those companies produce the pre-2026 status quo.revenue projections used to justify SB The Oregon and invest in their peersstarting new companies — not in referendum effort (Rep. Ed Diehl) is onepath, but a legislative fix is faster and these directly support early-stagecompanies and put startup operators key lesson isn't the outcome, it's theprocess. Washington's tech community I cofounded PIE (the Portland IncubatorExperiment), I've run Silicon Florist — a
their biggest returns.eliminates Oregon's conformity with the federal QSBS (Qualified Small The most immediate example is SB 1507, which 1507 are built on static scoring — theytake the current volume of QSBS- Washington, Colorado, or Texas -Angel investment activity in Oregon is sends a clearer signal - Governor'soffice: The Prosperity Council's own and investors in roles that allow them toinfluence legislation - Prosper had an organized voice (WTIA) and alegislature willing to listen. Oregon's blog covering Oregon startups — for 18years, and I've spent time in every
Business Stock) exclusion — a provision that has been in place since1993. This means Oregon residents now owe 9.9% state income tax on qualifying exits by Oregon residents,apply the 9.9% tax rate, and project steady or growing, not declining. Rightnow we should be measuring a mandate conflicts with SB 1507.Acknowledging that publicly would Portland's startup grants andscholarships — particularly for startup community had no equivalentchannel. The proposal passed before corner of this ecosystem from preseedfounders to corporate innovation
gains from startup exits that are tax-free at the federal level and in 45 otherstates. The bill was passed on party lines — with a flawed understanding $38.9M in the 2025-27 biennium,scaling to $83M by 2029-31. But those baseline before the QSBS changetakes full effect - Oregon is no longer matter - Business Oregon / stateeconomic development: Should be underrepresented founders (e.g., TiEXL Bootcamp scholarships) - The anyone could respond - Colorado'sstartup ecosystem has benefited from programs.Oregon's startup community is What I can tell you is that
and even more deeply flawed financial projections — with no meaningfulengagement with the startup community before passage, and it's numbers assume founders andinvestors don't change their behavior. on the short list of states that activelypenalize startup investment (currently tracking startup formation, angelinvestment, and founder retention as university-to-startup pipeline — PSU,OHSU, OSU, and UO all have emerging intentional state investment ininnovation districts and a competitive remarkably resilient and resourceful —but it's held together by volunteer effort,
retroactive to January 1, 2026.that often winds up funding the next generation of startups — gone. That's 9.9% of a successful liquidity event But They will.Treasury analysis has found that QSBS At the federal level, U.S. alongside California, Pennsylvania,Mississippi, and Alabama — not exactly core metrics — not just large employerrecruitment. - Business Oregon: After commercialization programs. Theseneed sustained investment, not cyclical tax environment that doesn't penalizestartup exits - Indiana's innovation personal relationships, andorganizations operating well below their
the bigger challenge is predictability. The Council's own definition ofbusiness climate references "a predictable and competitive environment." revenue estimates that account forbehavioral responses come in the innovation peers we aspire to) -The startup community has a seat at year of bolting on programs, BusinessOregon has become an island of misfit funding - Business Oregon's supportfor organizations like OEN, TAO, and council model provides a standingadvisory body with startup and VC potential because of limited resources.The talent is here. The ideas are here.
SB 1507 is the opposite — a retroactive tax change that caught the startupcommunity off guard. Founders and investors make multi-year bets. When significantly lower than staticprojections. At the state level, the the table before tax and regulatory policyaffecting business formation is finalized toys. It has become too expansive withtoo many competing priorities and TiE Oregon — these are the connectivetissue of the ecosystem, and they representation that reviews proposedlegislation for economic impact before What's missing is a state governmentthat treats the startup ecosystem as
the rules change mid-game, they don't fight — they move. And "move" inOregon's case means a 15-minute drive to Vancouver, Washington, where behavioral response will be far morepronounced — because the friction is — not after - Clark County stops beingthe default answer to "where should I constituencies. It should be rethought,refactored, or completely razed and operate on shoestring budgets relativeto their impact passage - Utah's Silicon Slopes is apublic-private partnership that strategic infrastructure rather than arevenue source to be tapped. And SB
there is no state income tax at all.or ideas. It's that we keep building an ecosystem with one hand while The barrier isn't that Oregon lacks talent near zero. Vancouver, Washington is 15minutes from Portland with no state incorporate if I want to build inPortland?" rebuilt from the ground up. - Thestartup community itself: We need to coordinates ecosystem support, talentpipeline, and policy advocacy — giving 1507 is not an isolated incident. This isa pattern that goes back over a decade:
undermining its competitive position with the other. income tax. Founders and investorsplanning multi-year exits have every show up. That's completely on us. Partof the reason SB 1507 passed without the startup community both visibility anda seat at the table. Oregon has the what became Measures 66/67- 2009-2010: The legislature passed
reason and every ability to changeresidency before a liquidity event. startup input is that the community isn'torganized for policy engagement the pieces but no coordination layer at thestate level (approved by voters January 2010) — anew gross receipts tax on corporations
We don't have to guess about this.Washington proposed the same QSBS way other industries are. That's on ustoo including unprofitable startups, and atop personal income tax rate of 11%,
elimination this year (SB 6229). WTIAwarned it "sends exactly the wrong the highest in the country. A double hitto founders and the investors trying to
signal — telling homegrown startups tobuild here, but plan their success fund them.(https://siliconflorist.com/2009/10/12/ore
Mark Linehan 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The Rose Quarter I-5 expansion is too expensive. It takes money away somewhere else." AngelList researcherAbe Othman warned the biggest riskStop the I-5 Rose Quarter expansion. ODOT isn't running out of funds to do The legislature needs to stop the I-5 Oregon's Climate Protection Program is NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA gon-startups-death-taxes/) - 2012: TheOregon Investment Act (HB 4040) nearlyNA NA
from other programs that are more important, such as maintaining ourroads and highways. The expected failure of the transportation referendum We should also implement a univeralVehicle Miles Tax (e.g. Orego) to basic upkeep. Rose Quarter expansion, and substitutea Vehicle Miles Tax for the current state a good step towards dealing withclimate change in our state. It should
emphasizes that we should focus on taking care of the roads and highwaysthat we already have, rather than new infrastructure that we can't afford. replace the gas tax. That would befairer to all road users. income tax. be enshrined in state law so that it can'tbe revoked by some future Governor.
Fred Jones 97330 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The Multnomah County PFA tax is keeping businesses from locating in thecounty, since the leaders of the organizations pay it - and they're the only Abolish the tax or at least modify it soeveryone pays something. More businesses setting up in ormoving to Multnomah County and Legislature and MultCo gov't. Can't think of any. Enforcing laws on the books would benice. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
aaron coury 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce ones who pay it and it can be 3% on very high incomes.energy security, as the war on Iran is showing, our dependence on fossil incentivize solar, public transit, bikes, Oregon.a meaningful reduction in greenhouse everyone, starting in the legislature and NA balcony solar, Paris' car reduction No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA a well-educated, well-paid, well-cared NA
fuels is a threat today on its own, to saw nothing of the ravages of climatechange that we have seen in recent years and know will only be getting etc. and no data centers gas emissions executive measures for workforce is the best climate forbusiness
Catherine Stearns 97330 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce worse in the years to comeThe biggest barrier is the lack of living wages that keep up with inflation of Make it easier for workers to unionize Increase in the amount of the workforce All of the entities listed in the question Collective bargaining for unionized When workers have a say, authentically, Yes NA Fully funding education The largest corporations need to realize Enact a higher tax rate on individuals Enough revenue to start remediating Legislature has to act to provide Employment Rights Bureau; Vocational If Mayor Momdani can get some of Yes Tools for growth The need for education from K-basic AA Enact tax on millionaires and raise More folks participating in advance All of the above Minimum corporate tax rate -raise it. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Listen to the people: healthcare for all; NA
the minimal necessities. A well taken care of workforce means prosperityfor all; not just some. so they can democratize their workplaces. The Europeans have done it for that is unionized, higher medianincome, less evictions and less need to work together on an on-goingbasis and at a scale that matches the workers-public and private.subsidies for child care from DHS. Increased in the workplace-everyone prospers. their bottom line strategies are killingus all; they must pay their fair share. earning a million or more a year. Enacta raise to the minimum corporate tax the backlog of infrastructurerehabilitation, more folks participating in revenue to local governments,employers, education and training Rehabilitation; EmploymentDepartment; OSHA; DHS; Private these things for the workers of NewYork City, we could be doing it as well. college degree fully funded withouthaving to grovel for revenue every corporate minimum tax rate. If you wantprosperity, you have to invest in the skills and education and training whichleads to higher paychecks and leads to universal child care; living wages; freeeducation, easier to get unionized,
decades and it’s not hurting them. And,they have universal health care. This homelessness; legislation tomeaningfully assist workers losing their desperate needs of so much of theworkforce. Realistic vocational rehabilitationservices as well as paid re-training More revenue provides for moreeducational opportunities for a skilled rate. The most well off cannot expectprosperity while they keep their boots educational opportunities that will leadto living wage jobs. partners. Industry Councils, budget cycle. populace and the workforce. more revenue-a full circle of win-win-win.. become an employee owned business -to name a few concepts that feed
may require subsidy or incentives forsmaller businesses. jobs to AI opportunities for those impacted by AI. workforce. Additionally, revenue isneeded to rehab and improve on the necks of the workforce and thepopulation as a whole. prosperity at all levels. These are itemsneeded for Oregon to be more than
infrastructure across the board. average.
Sarah Lochner 97216 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce I think the public education system, specifically k-12, needs an overhaul.We need to educate based on a modern economy, not the industrial The ability to fire bad teachers and nothave them continue to be protected by NA Governor, legislature, unions need tocome together and make meaningful Preschool for all. Nurse home visitingthrough public health. Free school NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NO increased logging. We need to liveup to our reputation as an eco- NA
revolution. We need accountability for bad teachers. We need a schoolschedule that makes sense for working parents. We need more support for labor unions. Labor unions aregenerally a good thing, except when it improvements. meals. These help set up kids forschool success. conscious state. Let's grow the GREENeconomy.
the good teachers and schools in general. They are asked to do a lot andwe need to support them appropriately. Good teachers are worth their comes to protecting bad employees.Oregon leaders are held hostage by
weight in gold and we should pay them like it. labor unions and there needs to bereform. This is a huge barrier to
enacting meaningful change in anumber of arenas. It's time to have hard
conversations and to do hard things.
annie capestany 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate too much focus on growth. Growth is NOT inherently good. Selling moregadgets is not inherently good. More is not better. Should be focused on the businesses should see taxes as aninvestment into their communities. happier, healthier people. strongercommunity. Cleaner air and water. Less Need right to repair laws. Governmentdivesting from evil companies that help NA NA Yes Workforce NA wages are to low. workers are abused;too much wage theft. not enough child prosecute employers who steal fromtheir workers. people working fewer hours but makinga living wage increase the minimum wage.strengthen unions NA NA Yes Tools for growth business taxes are too low. We aresacrificing environment and workers for end tax breaks for data centers, AI, andother businesses that harm businesses pay higher wages, offermore benefits. people can afford decent legislature, local government NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA capitalism is a failed system build onracism and misogyny. We need a NA
quality of their products or their work, as well as their impact on thecommunity and the environment. Too much focus on cutting taxes for businesses. Build a wellnesseconomy. businesses should clean up garbage. More things being fixed, ratherthan replaced. less crime fascists lock up immigrants or deny usour rights. Expanding health care care. unsafe work environments. the sake of profits (but more is NOTbetter.) we are giving away tax revenues environment, as well as businessesthat don't support workers and unions. housing and medical care. Billionairepays for his own damn arena wellness economy that takes care ofeveryone, doesn't just favor the rich
businesses; should be improving work experience and salary for workers.Businesses should be contributing to community, not just their their environmental messes.businesses should waste less (including gender affirming care.)raising minimum wage to businesses that don't necessarilyimprove our communities or create tax rich people at higher rate. prosecutebusinesses that pollute our water and improvements. farm land protected. (who are predominantly straight white,christian men.) Capitalism stifles
pocketbooks. resources. jobs. we are prioritizing the wants of theultra rich over the needs of the working air. prosecute employers that stealwages and harm employees. diversity and creativity. Capitalism iskilling our city and country.
people (like Moda center deal).
Leland Vaughan 97232 Organization/Business Outlet PDX Private NA Arts &Education 1 - 20 people NA NA NA NA NA Universal, free, high-quality preschoolis an economic silver bullet — it Universal free pre-K is gainingmomentum nationwide. The program No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
delivers a 3-to-1 return on investmentand raises family incomes by about we already have here is a nationalmodel for how it could and should be
22% on average. done. Expanding it while keeping thequality high will help our region remain
competitive when it comes to attractingand retaining workers and their young
families.
Karla Marks 97301-2715 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The disparity in wealth and tax policy that contributes to that wealth andwage disparity. Environmental protections that honor our old growth forest End mortgage interest deductions onsecond homes and luxury crafts (boats, Better funding for services Oregoniansvalue and better quality of living, health Legislative branch, local government,business and education partners Improved child care and homecareaccess, lower housing cost and NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and air and water quality. RV's, etc. ) Raise taxes on higherincome earners to bring them in care outcomes. Longer life expectancy,education, transportation and increased home ownership. Veteransservices,
proximity to the tax rates of lowerincome earners. Employ child care and infrastructure.
elder care enhanced tax deductions aswell as tax exempt savings for higher
education or health care savings
PAUL RIEK 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Childcare Increase free and low-cost access tochildcare Every worker has free or low-costaccess to childcare Legislature Preschool for All None Yes Tools for growth NA Affordable housing Promote construction of more trulyaffordable housing (30% & 60% of AMI) Low and middle income workers canfind housing that they can afford without Legislature and local governments Unsure Unsure No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Raise per capita income, the singlebest measure of a state's economic NA
Shannon Llewellyn 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Jobs and training so displaced workers of ALL ages can afford to survive in FREE education in relevant fields and Housing that's affordable for seniors. EVERYONE I don't know of any I don't know of any No NA NA NA with access to transitNA a long drive to workNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA health.NA NA
Multnomah County, support during schooling so peopledon't become homeless.
NA 97302 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Hoarding land for long term value appreciation. Change property tax law to a land valuetax structure. Investors selling land as returns arelower than taxes. Legislative action, possible constitutionchange to reverse earlier measures State ownership of land to protect longterm stewardship. State should not be What about other countries? Vienna forsocial housing. Yes Business climate NA Stop giving special tax breaks tobusinesses. One uniform system is No tax exemptions for anything. Eitherdesign the system to be better or do No special development areas, no taxbased financing, no preferred groups Legislative action to take awayprograms that make cities compete Preschool for all. NA Yes Workforce Stop pushing AI and data centers. No AI in schools or governmentagencies. Every company that includes Only people who want AI can have it,and kids learn and employees can do I think people have to wake up from thedelusion that AI is a good thing. Online DMV services. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop including republicans, if apolitician is not willing to become an NA
that restricted property taxes. selling land but buying more. more fair and predictable and reducesexploitation of communities by tax away with that type of tax if you can’tmake it work uniformly. getting waivers (no tax benefits forjets/second homes/yachts). against each other. AI in its product has to have an opt-inswitch. their jobs, so that when AI inevitablycollapses we can carry on. independent at this point in history theyare not a good partner.
colleen moloney 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Education, more affordable higher ed particularly for social service careers I dont' know for sure and the public Stable funding at a minimum with an People have to care enough about the NA NA No NA NA avoiding businesses.NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
as well as educators. money funds both these socialservices and education, so tax dollars increased funding mechanism. both forservices and for living wages. greater good to fund these programs.
are extremely important. The taxsystem must be fair and tax breaks do
not help the larger community.
Seth Johnson 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Overfocus on large businesses which extract concessions and lowerprevailing wages rather than reducing costs for small businesses. This Public alternatives for banking,insurance, real estate and utilities We have a prototype for a state bankand state insurance that can finance Figure out how to make the utilities playball, or work around them, because they The POWER act was a good start. California phasing out licensing for gascars. Seattle City Light was carbon Yes Workforce NA Childcare, rent, and utility costs arepreventing people from having the Preschool For All should be donestatewide on the same model. It's Growth in public housing proving it'scost-effective. Expansions of PFA Give localities the ability to set their ownrent control policies so they can adjust The revolving loan fund is a good start.Let's see how far we can take it. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
puts too many of our eggs in one basket. In the meantime, we're notmaking infrastructural improvements which would help everyone. would create a huge investment andcost-saving opportunities for new and new opportunities. We have someinitial pools of publicly-owned aren't right now.taxation power (fix 5 & 50) so they can Give localities more neutral years ago; we have no excuse. economic freedom to do things likestart new businesses or explore job- working very well in Multnomah County.Ideally we should extend it to cover outside of MultCo. Eviction ratesdropping significantly. more effectively to local conditions.Stop fighting against the successful
existing businesses. Investment intransit would help move workers and commercial real estate that can beleased to businesses at lower cost. actually create the revenue to buildsmaller local models for these training and education for new fields.We have to address affordability before childcare in general.testing. Funded by taxes on the wealthy No means PFA program.
customers where they need to go.also very badly need to treat climate We We are actually on track to meet ourclimate goals. The CEI hub is on a path programs. we can see meaningful returns fromworkforce development. (I'll start paying this tax this year and amthrilled to do so). Restore rent
investment as business investment. Aswarming continues we are starting to toward removal from the liquefactionzone it's currently sitting on (not gonna assistance and eviction preventionfunding. Guaranteed representation for
see more fires, fire risk, and air qualityissues. These are going to get worse be much business in Portland whenthat thing is destroyed on a quake). tenants in eviction cases.building back public housing supply. Start
and they are going to hurt our ability tobe prosperous.
Bella Johnson 97015 Organization/Business Pacific Seafood Private Food andBeverage NA 1000+ people Business climate Permitting and regulatory systems that are overly complex and difficult tonavigate, resulting in permit delays and enforcement challenges. A lack of Establishment of accountabilitytimelines and decision making - Success would mean transparent,predictable permitting processes with - Governor - DEQ Director -Legislature - Industry & Community We have seen some progress in thepast two years with DEQ permit writers NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
meaningful collaboration between agencies and industry to create realistic,effective permitting processes that encourage compliance and business frameworks that mandate considerationof economic viability, technical clear engagement pathways forregulated parties. - Agencies would Partnerships coming to the table to meet and workcollaboratively with industry
growth.seafood processors do not consider the realities of the industry, fail to Example: DEQ’s recent wastewater permit changes among feasibility, and community impacts inpermitting and regulatory changes. routinely engage in collaborative andmeaningful pre permit discussions with representatives regarding permitissues through a series of planned
consider potential ecological benefits from seafood dischargers, and poseunnecessary economic burden with little to no environmental gain: •Heavy Commonsense parameters for DEQrulemaking where 1) there needs to be industry before permits are issued.Regulatory systems would also - meetings. Although this has led toprogress and better understanding by
metals: Seafood processors do not add or use heavy metals, yet arerequired to remove them from wastewater despite the lack of cost effective a feasible/best available technologyway to meet the regulations, 2) a explicitly require the consideration ofeconomic, technical feasibility, and DEQ, there are still issues that remainunresolved and a similar effort involving
treatment technology capable of doing so. Any metals present occur atlevels thousands of times lower than drinking water standards and required economic cost-benefitanalysis, and 3) take into consideration community impacts in permittingdecisions. enforcement personnel would begreatly beneficial.
originate from naturally occurring environmental sources. Imposingremoval requirements would make operations economically unviable and what other states require or how theyinterpret federal requirements and work
force processors out of business. •Sampling and compliance burden:Permits require daily and weekly sampling, but coastal communities lack in parity.
certified labs and technical staff to support compliance. This makes routinecompliance infeasible and results in recurring violations, exposing
processors to significant penalties and third party lawsuits through no faultof their own. •Immediate permit limits and legal risk: Technology based
effluent limits (TBELs) take effect on Day 1 of a permit, even thoughnecessary treatment systems can take months or years to design and
install or, in some cases, may not be feasible at all. During this period,processors accumulate violations and legal exposure. While mechanisms
like MAOs may mitigate risk, they are unavailable until after permit issuanceand are discretionary, creating an existential legal and financial threat to the
industry.
James Archuleta 97267 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Wildfire and monetizing biomass to address the issue in a meaningful andmeasurable way. Focus on Biomass Utilization bysupporting sort yards, which can Minimizing the amount of forest burnpiles across State, Private and Federal All of the above. It already occurs to adegree with firewood and pole Relaxation of Air Permitting on AirCurtain Incinerators, which aligns with Finding operations that already useLow Value Material, such as Heartwood No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Sort yards can offer opportunitiesbeyond wood products and enhance NA
consume biomass, reduce wildfire riskand potential stabilize far more carbon lands. This will also put depressedtimber dependant communities back to manufacturing. But the sorting canbenefit collection of materials for Mass the EPA relaxation of the Clean Air Actregarding this equipment. Biomass, Iron Triangle, GreenDiamond... and help them expand not agriculture. Especially wuth biochar.This material can trigger Soil Organic
the DAC technology. work. Timber to wood energy and biochar.The later could offer the state a way to only to produce more, but aggregateloads thatch go to other producers. Matter (SOM) development. The NRCSsays every 1% increase in SOM in the
minimize nutrient laden ground waternear Bend and Morrow CO. Potentially eliminating forest burn piles,which can be credited for starting the soil you gain ~16,500gal/ acre.
2022 Calf Canyon Hermits Peak wildfirein NM.
David Price 97236 Both Coyote Logic LLC Private Technology NA 1 - 20 people Workforce Healthcare and social safety nets Increase taxes to support universalsingle-payer healthcare for all Having the social safety net to takebusiness risks Increase taxes on wealthy individualsand all corporations Oregon Health Plan, Preschool for All Nordic model for government No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Tax the rich fairly, defund PPB. NA
Oregonians
