implementation, OSU offers the following perspective on how the university can support
and strengthen execution across key strategy areas.
Workforce and Talent Development
Workforce is a central pillar of the Prosperity Roadmap and a foundational strength of OSU.
The university produces graduates aligned with priority sectors statewide and contributes
directly to workforce outcomes reflected in national competitiveness benchmarks, including
CNBC’s Top States for Business Workforce Rank. OSU can further support implementation
by aligning degree production, credentials, applied learning, and upskilling with sector and
regional workforce needs, in coordination with the Higher Education Coordinating
Commission (HECC), employers, and state agencies. This includes expanding work-
integrated learning and employer partnerships that improve talent readiness and retention.
OSU Ecampus, ranked sixth nationally, further expands this capacity by delivering flexible,
high-quality online education statewide, supporting credentialing, reskilling, and upskilling
for working adults and incumbent workers aligned with industry and regional needs.
OSU is the first U.S. university to offer both M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in AI and is the #3
producer of engineering-based computer science bachelor’s degrees nationally—directly
aligned with Oregon’s priority sectors. OSU’s economic impact data underscores this role as
a workforce engine. The university has more than 238,000 alumni, with 134,592 living and
working in Oregon, generating an estimated $258.5 billion in lifetime economic impact and
supporting approximately 1.4 million jobs statewide. In addition, OSU plays a connective
role in Oregon’s higher education and workforce ecosystem, working closely with
community colleges, regional partners, and state agencies to strengthen pathways from
education to employment.
Company Attraction, Growth, Retention, and Innovation
OSU plays an important role in supporting company attraction, growth and retention
through long-term research partnerships, applied R&D, access to specialized facilities, and
deep technical expertise. These relationships often anchor companies in Oregon and enable
continuous innovation. OSU’s national and global industry partners also represent prime
targets for business attraction and expansion, leveraging existing research and talent
relationships to reduce relocation risk and accelerating integration into the state’s economy.
OSU spinouts anchor jobs in Oregon, including Inpria (acquired for $514M), Agility
Robotics (over $550M raised), and NuScale Power (valued at $2B+). Since 2013, OSU has
generated nearly 200 startups that have attracted close to $2 billion in capital investment,
demonstrating the university’s ability to translate research into scalable companies. These
firms have the potential to grow and remain in Oregon when supported by the right mix of
capital, infrastructure, and long-term ecosystem support.
The State of Oregon supports several programs that provide long-term, sustainable funding
mechanisms that support partnerships between public universities and the state, support
innovation and economic development and bolster key state sectors. These tools should be
recognized as part of Oregon’s economic development system, not as isolated university
initiatives. Some examples include:
• University Innovation Research Fund (UIRF) provides a state match for
competitive federal research awards that focus on economic development and/or
innovation.
2
