3 . P E R M IT T I N G & R E G U L AT I O N S
Additional Recommendations
The state should lead by example through permitting performance standards for state agencies and partner
with local governments to advance shared best practices, including clear decision timelines, service level
expectations, consistent application requirements, online permitting systems, and transparent standards for
1
determining application completeness.
Promote a pragmatic solutions-oriented regulatory culture across agencies including the state departments of
Environmental Quality, Land Conservation and Development, State Lands, and Transportation, Oregon Health
2
Authority, and local jurisdictions. Expand coordinated rapid-review pathways for strategic projects and authorize
the Governor’s office to elevate and coordinate stalled projects across agencies and jurisdictions.
The Governor should work with California and Washington to ensure alignment of key policies that affect business
competitiveness, such as agricultural overtime standards including total compensation, and Oregon’s Paid Family
Leave Program.
Because a stable electric utility system is a necessary component of a competitive economic environment,
Oregon should advance solutions through the Oregon Public Utility Commission, in coordination with electric
utilities, which should advance durable solutions addressing utility wildfire liability and long-term system resilience.
The Governor should direct the DEQ to pause the Cleaner Air Oregon Toxic Air Contaminant Rule and Update
rulemaking to allow for more rigorous scientific review. Direct DEQ program staff to focus on timely implementation
of covered facilities, and processing of new permits.
1
2 The healthcare sector is one of Oregon’s largest employers, and in many rural communities and regions, it represents the single largest employer. Oregon
hospitals alone contribute $32.4 billion in economic activity and support 160,000 jobs statewide (Hospital Association of Oregon). However, the cost of
healthcare is also a drag on the economy. Reducing the total cost of care and overall regulatory burden is critical to Oregon’s prosperity.
- 24 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
