May 15, 2026
Dear Members of the Governor’s Prosperity Council,
As you map a strategy for the advancement of Oregon’s economic prosperity and growth,
we ask you to consider the power of investing in Oregon’s outdoor recreation economy:
both in the trails and public infrastructure that support outdoor experiences for Oregon
residents and tourists alike, and in supporting the outdoor business sector for which Oregon
is a national leader.
BEA data showed that nationally, in 2024, outdoor recreation generated $1.3 trillion in
economic impact (2.4% of U.S. GDP) and 5.2 million jobs, reflecting the desire of
Americans across the country to get outdoors and recreate. Oregon’s natural landscapes
from mountains to ocean, from our high deserts to our Wild and Scenic Rivers, hold huge
potential for a thriving and robust outdoor recreation economy, but we are currently leaving
much of that potential on the table as other states make strategic investments that draw
both businesses and visitors away from our state.
More than 80% of Oregonians report using local trails, and we know that connected trail
systems help visitors stay longer, spend more, and reach small businesses. However, thus
far, Oregon has failed to invest strategically in our Oregon Signature Trail system.
To illustrate the strategic power of investment in trails, let’s look at a single example from
our nation’s other coast, the 150-mile Great Alleghany Passage Trail, a walking and biking
trail connecting cities and small towns from Pittsburgh to Cumberland. The infrastructure
that cost $80 million in initial investment to create now generates more than $121 million in
annual economic impact, supporting 1,400 jobs and $74+ million in direct visitor spending
and an additional $46 million from indirect/induced spending. That’s the impact of just one
fully-connected and maintained 150 mile trail. Imagine the power of investing in fully
connecting Oregon’s 15 Signature Trails pictured below.
www.oregontrailscoalition.org | 503-290-4569 | steph.noll@oregontrailscoalition.org
