Graham Trainor 97202 Organization/Business Climate Jobs Oregon Non-profit Metals andMachinery Cleanenergy 1000+ people Workforce Oregon’s clean energy sector as defined by the U.S. Department of Energysustained over 67,000 in-state jobs in 2023. In-state electricity generation Oregon’s labor movement has begun tolay the foundation to address both of in the short term: -Protecting andstrengthening comprehensive gold star All of the above would need to worktogether to accomplish our goals. Oregon’s Prevailing Wage Rate Lawsalready support the creation of 5,400 Oregon can look to several provenmodels from other states that align No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
supported 11,185 jobs, 83% of which were from solar, wind, andhydropower; fuels employed 5,720 jobs, mostly in agriculture and forestry these crises simultaneously. With thepassage H.B. 2021 (2021), H.B. 4059 labor standards for oregon’s greenunion transition, such as:: utilization of jobs, boost Oregon’s economy by $752million, and generate $35 million in public investment with strong workforceoutcomes. First, states with robust
(65.7%) as well as professional services (19.1%); and transmission,distribution, and storage supported 13,159 jobs. Nearly 80% of electric (2022), H.B. 3031 (2023), and mostrecently H.B. 4080 (2024), Oregon’s state-registered apprentices inapprenticeable trades -a minimum state and local tax revenues every year.Recent studies show that strengthening prevailing wage laws consistently seehigher wages, better benefits, safer
generation jobs and 91% transmission jobs were utilities, construction,and manufacturing positions. As a result, the potential for significant labor movement has helped secureintegral gold-star labor standards on utilization of 30 percent ofjourneypersons who are state- the Oregon law to align withWashington state’s prevailing wage worksites, and stronger apprenticeshipsystems, alongside measurable gains
emissions reduction and the creation of a robust, union clean energyeconomy remains unfulfilled, moving forward only in fits, starts, and an covered projects across the cleanenergy economy. The passage of H.B. registered -apprenticeship graduates,with phased benchmarks where law, would annually boost totalconstruction worker incomes by an in productivity. These policies helpensure that large-scale infrastructure
abundance of policy that lacks forward momentum.Oregonians are not only facing the climate crisis, they are facing an Everyday working 2021 (2021) and H.B. 4059 (2022)together represented a watershed appropriate -prevailing wagerequirements -employer-paid full-family additional $100 million, extend healthinsurance coverage to 1,800 buildout is delivered efficiently whilesupporting a stable, skilled workforce.
inequality crisis as well. The state’s cost of living is at an all-time high, andthe average Oregonian earns just above a living wage to support moment in the buildout of a union greeneconomy in Oregon, paving the way for healthcare and retirement benefits -participation of contractors in state- construction workers, lift 1,200construction workers out of poverty, and Second, California has set the standardfor “skilled and trained workforce”
themselves – as long as they have no partner, children, elders, or otherdependents. In fact, “[i]n 2023, more than one-fourth (28%) of all jobs paid the more ambitious standards put forthin H.B. 3031 (2023) and H.B. 4080 registered. apprenticeship programsutilization of recognized pre- - improve state tax revenues by $10million. requirements, applying them acrossenergy, infrastructure, and industrial
less than $20 per hour, and the majority (57%) of all jobs in Oregon paidless than $30 per hour.” In fact, the 10 of the 20 most common occupations (2024). H.B. 3031 (2023) is particularlynotable as it contains model language apprenticeship programs -targetedoutreach, recruitment, and retention of projects. These policies ensure thatprojects are built by workers with
in Oregon pay less than $20 per hour. Yet while the average Oregonianmakes only 15% more now than they did four decades ago, wages for the for labor standards on any legislation inOregon, raising the floor for high road workers from underrepresentedcommunities -strong enforcement industry-recognized training, improvingquality, safety, and on-time delivery.
top one percent have grown 345% in that time. jobs as the state moves forward with itsgreen transition and beyond. This high mechanisms and communityengagement In the near term: - Third, states like California, Maryland,and New Jersey have strengthened
bar was further codified through thepassage of H.B. 4080 (2024), which create more efficient siting andpermitting processes with labor at the workforce pipelines by tying pre-apprenticeship programs to formal
took this established precedent andapplied it to the emerging industry of table to ensure faster clean energydevelopment -make Oregon a leader in partnerships with registeredapprenticeship programs and labor
offshore wind. In other words, thesefour bills are helping deliver on the sustainable data center buildout -protect union jobs & create healthier organizations, and by directing fundingto programs with demonstrated track
promise of high-quality jobs with familysustaining wages not just for the green workplaces by helping manufacturingfacilities meet emissions reduction records. This ensures public dollarssupport pathways into high-quality
economy’s present, but for its future.These legislative wins, paired with mandates -transform affordability andjob quality in housing construction with careers. Finally, community benefitsplan frameworks used in federal
Edith Bayer 97405 Organization/Business Oregon Department of Public NA Energy 101-500 people Tools for growth Electricity supply is struggling to keep up with rapidly rising electricity Oregon’s existing prevailing wage ratelaw – which defines the State’sThere is no simple solution to green public housing that creates unionjobs -lead by example by retrofittingIn the next 2-3 years, the focus will need Some of the actions recommended in The following are important programs programs and states like California andNew Jersey require developers toOne promising model highlighted in the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The answers to the questions also Oregon-Energy-Strategy.pdf
Energy demand. Some large businesses and particularly data centers have beenable to find enough power supply for their operations, enabling them to site developing the electricity infrastructureneeded to serve Oregonians and power to be on developing resources that canbe brought on line quickly, while paving the Energy Strategy and Executive Order25-29 can be implemented within that help advance investment inrenewable energy resources and Energy Strategy are green banks orrevolving loan funds. The Energy relate in places to Business Climateand Workforce. ODOE would be happy
in Oregon. However, available transmission and generation capacity isoften scarce, limiting opportunities for new businesses to locate in the the state economy. ODOE is working onproposed solutions, some of which will the way for longer lead-time resourcesto get built. Success would be that existing agency authorities andcapacity. ODOE and other agencies are resilience: - Grid Resilience GrantProgram (ODOE) - Community Strategy identifies a need to increasethe pace and scale of investment in to discuss the nexus of energy andeconomic development further with the
state. The Oregon Energy Strategy identifies this challenge, and calls foraction to expand the electricity system and to identify opportunities to be presented to the Governor’s office inthe fall of 2026. Actions in the Oregon investment in these resources hasincreased significantly, helping to get advancing these actions to the extentfeasible. Others will require legislative Renewable Energy Grant Program(ODOE) - Rural Renewable Energy clean technologies. Establishing arevolving loan fund could help achieve Prosperity Council.
advance local benefits. Executive Order 25-29 directs the OregonDepartment of Energy and other agencies to advance solutions for: Energy Strategy are expected to beimplemented over the next four years. more use out of the existing powersystem in the near-term and expanding action. For example, reforms tostreamline permitting or to overcome Zones (RRED) (Business Oregon) -SIP Strategic Investment Program this goal by supporting investment inkey areas like energy efficiency, electric
overcoming barriers to siting, permitting, and constructing renewableenergy projects; developing a framework for strategic transmission siting; resources where possible.example, energy efficiency, demand For barriers to transmission developmentmay require legislation. It will also be (Business Oregon) vehicle charging infrastructure, andindustrial modernization. Traditionally,
identifying opportunities for public-private partnerships to advance cleanenergy; and reporting on emerging technologies. Deadlines for this work flexibility, batteries, and grid-enhancingtransmission technologies can all help important to work with localgovernments, since much of the siting incentives have played a major role insupporting adoption of clean energy
are between September and November 2026.Energy would be glad to provide more information to the Prosperity Council The Oregon Department of meet rising demand quickly.Oregon Energy Strategy recommends a The and permitting for energy projectshappens at local level. A key takeaway technologies. While grants will continueto be important, a revolving loan fund is
on our findings regarding key points of friction and potential solutions. Wealso welcome dialogue to inform our process and develop solutions that series of actions focused on expandinginvestment in energy efficiency and from the Oregon Energy Strategytechnical analysis is that significant a critical element to drive higher uptakeof clean technologies with limited
can support economic growth in Oregon. demand flexibility in households andbusinesses. It highlights the investment is needed in education andtraining to ensure that a skilled government money. A revolving loanfund can also be a vehicle to grow
importance of demand-side flexibility,both by shifting energy use in workforce is available to deliver themeasures identified as critical to available financing for clean energy overtime as federal and state opportunities
households and small businesses,and exploring ways that large electric meeting Oregon’s energy needs. ODOEis undertaking a workforce needs to apply for funds become available.
loads can manage their operations toalleviate risk during critical times of year analysis, in cooperation with theUniversity of Oregon. Cooperation with
on the power system. These actionscan help reduce pressure on the power educational/training partners,employers, and local governments will
system and provide more space fornew resources to come online. all be important to inform this study andadvance opportunities.
Similarly, grid enhancing technologiescan capture efficiencies in existing
transmission lines, helping to get moreuse out of them while waiting for
Dave Dillon 97220 Organization/Business Food Northwest, the tradeassociation for food Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Business climate State political and agency leaders need to value and appreciate business,not spend time villainizing businesses. Businesses are constantly under Leadership from the governor canremake agency culture to be more transmission upgrades or newChanged policy and changed culturechange the narrative about Oregon Leadership from the governor andtreasurer and the legislature. The food and beverage machinery andequipment local tax exemption, the NA Yes Tools for growth NA Shift state incentives from job creationto productivity and wage growth. Invest Address the above issues with smartuse of economic development Oregon's policies, actions, andreputation begin moving the needle so Cultural change allowing business tobe seen as a partner in achieving Regional economic developmentagencies can be very effective. Efforts NA Yes Workforce Workforce challenges are top of mindacross food manufacturing. Incentives Updated economic developmentmetrics that recognize a slow- or no- Focus on upskilling workforce,increasing productivity, and efficiency. Leadership from the governor andagency leads and staff, assist from the There are countless programs, many ofwhich seem to do great things. A key Idaho's LAUNCH program is a greatmodel. It's a wholly different approach No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We appreciate the governor conveningthis council, the chief prosperity officer, Food_and_Beverage_Council_Strategy_Report.pdf
manufacturers in Oregon,Washington, and Idaho attack from advocacy organizations that want more costly environmentalregulations, costly mandates, new or more business or employee taxes, solution-oriented and collaborative andease the regulatory burdens that weigh being hostile to business. Oregonstops adding one-off taxes for pet Businesses are ready to engage, butwe have to be invited in good faith. promotional and industry supportactivities of Oregon Dept. of Agriculture, in workforce training and technicalassistance and building systems that resources while addressing Oregon'soverall negative reputation for business Oregon is not at or near the bottom ofevery business friendliness ranking or common goals rather than anadversary. This starts with the governor like the Industrial Symbiosis bill thatallows business to lead on an Focused on Outdated Metric of JobsCreated Too many economic growth population where immigration isunlikely to mask declines in the rate of private sector and resources allocatedby the legislature. challenge is how to find them andmatch programs to employer and than Oregon has taken, but its earlysuccess is remarkable and the and the members of the council forrecognizing Oregon is not where it
and unreasonable policies to discourage increasing productivity and wagegrowth. The council needs to help reset that narrative and encourage down economic growth while providinglittle or no benefit. Oregon’s tax system projects and instead takes a serioussystemic look at a tax system and how it industrial symbiosis roadmaplegislation, policies such as farm use allow employers and employees to findand utilize them. State investment friendliness. metric. and agency leadership. The legislaturehas an important role in resource important sustainability initiative isencouraging. development programs are built on thebasis of job creation, meaning natural population growth. Directrelevant agencies such as the employee needs. trajectory change for lifetime earningsfor participants is very promising. needs to be for economic success, butwe can get to where we need to be.
policymakers and agencies to see businesses as collaborators and notadversaries. Agencies must set compliance standards and timelines that should be built around long termeconomic competitiveness for serves Oregon’s competitiveness inattracting and retaining businesses. assessment that promote a healthy agsector that is critical to food should be guided by study of capitalavailability and gaps in the funding of allocation and needed changes to ORS. increased head count. This is anoutdated metric for many reasons, Employment Division and HECC tocurate a unified resource to help
are technologically possible and economically attainable.burden is too high. The Oregon business tax burden rose by 1/3 from 2019 Oregon’s tax businesses we wish to attract to orretain in our state. Oregon’s tax Success includes not being at or nearthe bottom of every ranking of states by manufacturing. start-ups through large establishedcompanies. Oregon's regional funding including the demographic challengesdetailed below. With slowing population employers and employees to find anduse programs, grants, credentialing
to 2023, an increase of $3.4 billion. Oregon’s corporate tax rate plus theCAT makes Oregon less competitive. The CAT, in particular, taxes framework was cobbled together tofund priority items or balance budgets tax, regulatory, and businessfriendliness. Success includes gaps include a lack of sector-specificearly-stage food and beverage growth, stifled immigration, and lowunemployment, incentives should be bodies, curricula, and other up-skillingand training.
manufacturing inputs making the cost of production and cost of doingbusiness in Oregon costly. We recommend the council exploring ways to in a piecemeal tax-by-tax approach. Weneed a tax system that is built for long agencies that work with business, notagainst them. Policy followed by action investment funds and incentives likeangel investment tax credits, limiting focused on up-skilling currentemployees. Efficiency and overall
reduce, and even exempt, manufacturers and manufacturing inputs fromthe CAT. Oregon should reconnect to federal accelerated depreciation term economic success. followed by improved reputationfollowed by better retention and local growth capital. Help facilitatecapital availability for food companies economic contribution to the communityare better markers for success than
which is a key driver of greater investment in Oregon businesses. Otherexamples of tax increases are the health premium assessment and the attractiveness for businesses. and others to grow through “no-man’sland” size categories. Facilitate capital head count increases. Creating jobs ina full-employment economy is
paid leave payroll tax at the state level.hurting investment. Constant changes in regulations and the uncertainty Oregon’s regulatory burden is availability for co-manufacturing whichis a great lever for overall sector growth. counterproductive.Resource Guide for Employers Serving No Curated
surrounding major climate policy is hurting investment. Food processorsare concerned about investing capital into Oregon facilities when the on sustainability initiatives. IndustrialThere are opportunities for leadership on the Higher Education CoordinatingCommission’s Future Ready Workforce
regulatory costs could make the business unprofitable. Uncertain andoften unreasonable agency timelines make long term business planning Symbiosis is an example. This is abusiness-led effort where state Task Force, it is clear that there is nocentralized curated data source for
extremely difficult, limiting companies’ ability to invest, respond quickly, andmake informed strategic decisions. The state must look at reducing the resources can play a role.a viable agricultural sector is key to the Supporting employers to see and access the manyworkforce efforts in place in Oregon.
number of regulations and avoid regulations that are designed to hurtmanufacturing, like the existing CPP regulations. The administrative continued success of foodmanufacturing in Oregon. Oregon There are scores of economicdevelopment agencies, workforce skills
process is costly and burdensome for businesses attempting to resolvedisputes with state agencies. There is little to no incentive to maintain a fair businesses don’t need a lot ofprograms to help them. They need state training providers, community collegesector-specific programs, credentialing
and impartial accountability system within agency appeal and legalprocesses. Businesses are required to navigate an internal appellate government to stop hurting them. Thegreatest driver for economic growth is entities, public university programs,private college and university programs,
Richard Glassman 97204 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate process in which decision-makers are either employees of the agency(e.g., DEQ) or individuals appointed by the Governor, raising concernsOregon has always been perceived as having great opportunities, but never The State needs to embrace a uniform Success would be characterized by The legislature with the support of the The State has many good programs, NA No NA NA providing a regulatory and taxenforcement that treats employers likeNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA formerly incarcerated trainingprograms, to name a few. But there isNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
able to fully realize and benefit from them. There are several friction pointsthat deserve attention. The first is the State's inability to establish a clear strategy that offers a better commercialenvironment to entice more investment articles in the press regarding newinvestment in Oregon, new business business community. there are too many to list here.
message that conveys how the average Oregonian benefits from taxes.They are easy to complain about, but they are also necessary and most in Oregon. Only through growth inbusinesses and their workforce needs start-ups, and more businesseslocating here, followed by population
Oregonians do not understand the results of employing those tax dollars.The Second is the State's ability or willingness to address its relative will the State have the economic baseto support the programs and services growth and increased revenue for thestate of Oregon.
competitiveness against geographies that we compete with and then todecide who we want to be. Oregon leaders must decide what our goals that the leaders feel is necessary.This means that Oregon should
are, who or what the State wants to be and pursue those ends relentlessly. streamline its corporate tax structure, itshould expand research and
development credits to more industries,it should give credit for investment, and
it should support workforce training.The legislature needs to step back, and
look at the tax structure. They shouldconsider what they would do if there
were no existing tax system in place,and would they create the same system
we have now? Or, would they movetoward something less cumbersome
and easier to administer and to livewith?
Marcus Kauffman 97310 Organization/Business Oregon Mass TimberCoalition Public Forestry andWood Products NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth 1. Identify the mass timber sector as a high priority sector for the state.Dedicate a full time Mass Timber Strategist at Business Oregon to advance NA NA NA NA NA Yes Workforce NA Lack of dedicated workforcedevelopment resources to support the 3.Strengthen Workforce Developmentfor Advanced Wood Products •Develop A skilled workforce integrated intoforestry, manufacturing, fabrication, and Legislature Great programs exist through bothhigher education and community NA Yes Tools for growth Lack of an dedicated demand creationstrategy to capitalized 4.Apply Modern EconomicDevelopment Tools to Mass Timber Oregon takes a global leadershipposition in the fast growing mass Legislature, higher ed institutions,industry partners. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Governor’s Prosperity Council isdeveloping strategies to strengthen Governors%20Prosperity%20Council%20Feedback.pdf
industry growth at home and internationally.Permitting for Mass Timber Projects •Establish a dedicated pathway with 2. Expand FastTrack growth and expansion of Oregon'smass timber industry. mass timber specific curricula,certifications, and apprenticeships. construction/installation of the masstimber supply chain. colleges to deliver training curricula. •Ensure incentive programs supportlocal sourcing, clean manufacturing, timber industry. Mass timber industrycreates high-skill high-wage jobs Oregon’s long-term economiccompetitiveness through improvements
predictable, sector appropriate timelines.Readiness for Mass Timber Facilities •Fund preparation of strategic 2.Prioritize Industrial Site •Expand access to state workforcegrants supporting skilled manufacturing and innovation. •Align mass timbereligibility with enterprise zones, R&D across manufacturing, fabrication, anddesign. New demand improves to the business climate, workforcesystems, and statewide economic
industrial sites in timber producing regions. •Support infrastructure formills, fabrication plants, logistics hubs, and innovation campuses. careers. incentives, and site based tools.5.Integrate Mass Timber into Oregon’s economies of scale and allows Oregonbusinesses to compete effectively development tools. Several of theCouncil’s priorities align directly with
Global Trade Strategy •PromoteOregon engineered wood products against foreign rivals. the needs and opportunities ofOregon’s growing mass timber
internationally. •Offer export readinessservices to producers entering new industry—a sector with high potential todrive shared prosperity, rural economic
global markets.Long-Term Innovation Ecosystems 6.Support R&D and revitalization, and global leadership insustainable materials. The mass
•Expand partnerships amonguniversities, industry, and research timber sector offers: •High-value jobcreation in rural and urban areas.
institutions. •Leverage federal andstate grants for product innovation, •Increased demand for locally sourcedwood products. •Support for climate-
automation, and carbon analysis. aligned construction and carbonbeneficial materials. •Expanded
opportunities for innovation, research,and next generation building
technologies. •Greater resilience anddiversity within Oregon’s forest products
Holly Junge 97330 Organization/Business HP Inc., Corvallis, OR Private Technology NA 1000+ people Business climate HP is committed to the Environment and being a good steward of the HP proposes that Gov. Kotek rescind Success would look like the following: Governor Kotek would need to act to Regarding Energy, HP really I have seen much less regulatory No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA economy and reduced wildfire risk.I would like to thank Governor Kotek and NA
beautiful Air, Water, and Land that we enjoy in Oregon. But HP isconcerned about the Climate Protection Program, Executive Order put in the Executive Order regarding the CPP.Instead of forcing companies to Cancellation of the current CPPexecutive order. Increase the scope of remove the executive order authorizingthe CPP, the State Legislature would appreciates the partnership we get fromthe Energy Trust of Oregon. They have burden placed upon businesses inother states that allow and encourage legislature for the past support throughthe Oregon Chips Act and Tim Knopp
place by Kate Brown that regulates emissions and creates a fee structurefor air emissions. The biggest barrier or friction point is the cost that will be decrease greenhouse gas emissionsthrough fines and penalties, give the Energy Trust of Oregon to focusmore efforts on Fossil Fuel reduction need to act to remove the moratoriumon new installations of Nuclear Power provided free professional consultationto HP and supported us in our journey growth. Growth = a larger tax base,which allows stable and solid funding for coming and visiting the site recentlyto discuss this new focus for the state.
associated with this Executive Order and the lack of efficient technology tocreate the heating water used to support our fabs and manufacturing companies an incentive to be moreefficient, similar to a model of the rebates. The ETO has businesses theycurrently partner with, have engineering facilities, and approve geothermalexploration efforts by private companies to reduce Electricity usage by over 10%in the past 3 years. of State priorities.
operations. First, DEQ has not determined baseline levels for emissionreduction targets for each business impacted. Also, DEQ has not Energy Trust of Oregon, where they givefree consultation, suggest $ savings resources that are engaged on aregular basis with local companies, in the state.
determined the amount of credits that each business will get. Withoutunderstanding HP’s potential cost of this program, it is very difficult to plan ideas, and offer rebates for completingreductions in greenhouse gases. and are very successful in theirpartnerships. Success would also be
for the future. We can plan for the worst-case scenario, which couldpotentially cost HP over $1M/year at our current production rates. HP has Businesses will spend capital if there isa reasonable return on investment. achieved by removal of the Moratoriumon installation of new Nuclear Power
made great strides on water and electricity reductions over the past 3 yearsand even with major boiler upgrades, natural gas reductions have been Also, the state needs to ensure thereare technologies available to replace plants by the State Legislature. Also,having a feasible geothermal power
minimal. HP is very thankful for the State’s support in the form of anOregon State CHIPS Act grant which has been extremely beneficial. The current technology. Electric Resistanceheating is very inefficient compared to generation facility installed or have apath to completion in the next 5 year that
cost of compliance will negate many of the positive aspects provided by theCHIPS Act. If HP cannot do business in a cost-effective manner, they may fossil fuels and would put a substantialextra load on the current electrical grid. could support the needs of Oregon.
look elsewhere for locating new operations or or reassess localoperational citing. Lastly, high tax burdens/affordability issues continue to Some potential technologies that makesense currently are Small Modular
weigh on the mind of current and future employees and affects our ability toattract and retain talent. Attracting and retaining talent is a key priority for HP Reactors (i.e. NuScale Power) thatcould be purchased by businesses,
in continuing to invent and develop new technology. managed safely and effectively, whichcould provide power to Energy Intensive
Facilities. To do this, the moratoriumon new nuclear power plants in Oregon
would need to be rescinded by thelegislature. Along with this, the State
should pursue geothermal powergeneration options.
Maria Torres 97007 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce La falta de inclusión, y la educacionlos individuos. empresarial para el crecimiento de Mayores recursos educativos basicospara adulto de forma gratuita. Ejemplo, Mas personas desempeñandodiferentes oficios básicos que les Habrir oportunidades de crecimiento yconocimiento en las áreas laborales Programas educativos de bajo costo,aunque por la i flasion preferiría fueran No, he visto muchos, sin embargo,Oregon puede ser pionero en No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Hay varias pero puedo pensar en losmigrantes que están sin avanzar por NA
clases decomputacion, de ingles,clases o cursos de conocimiento permiten tener mejores salarios sintener la barrera de no educación sin pedir tanta experiencia y que suespacio de trabajo le permita seguir gratuitos o pagados por losempleadores o los condados quitando programas de desarrollo como porejemplo, dando clases a pequeños falta de oportunidades como elaprender a leer, ya que llegan siendo
enfocado en oficios básicos, comoeléctrica, mecánica, plomeria, universitaria. desarrollando su conocimiento dia adía. barreras de los requisitos. Basarsemás por condados o personas de negocios e incentivando con algunosfondos para empezar y seguir casi analfabeta o son analfabetas.
tecnología básica, ect bajos recursos y así que puedan seguirdesarrollándose a nivel profesional. creciendo. Motivando jóvenes que notienen o no lograron tener una carrera
universitaria o colegio a tenercertificaciones cortas que incrementan
sus sueldos mientras mejoran en susoficios.
Sara Odendahl 97702 Organization/Business Bend Chamber Non-profit Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The biggest barrier is not that Oregon has requirements; it is that too oftenbusinesses face a system that is hard to navigate, slow to act, and We would recommend a practicalbusiness climate package centered on Success would look like businessesand communities experiencing a The Legislature has to set theexpectation that regulatory systems The Bend Chamber strongly supportscontinuing the state’s recent work to Oregon should look to states that pairstrong standards with more predictable Yes Workforce NA The core challenge is that Oregon’sworkforce systems and employer Oregon should focus on strengtheningemployer-driven workforce alignment Within a few years, success wouldmean a workforce system that feels Progress will require coordinationacross multiple parts of the system. Oregon has several workforceprograms that are making a meaningful Several states have developedworkforce strategies that more directly Yes Tools for growth A major challenge is that Oregon’seconomic development tools do not Oregon should focus on building amore integrated economic development In a few years, success would meanOregon communities having more The Legislature plays a key role here inmaintaining and strengthening Programs that support industrial sitereadiness and infrastructure Many states have developed proactivesite readiness strategies that prepare No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Bend Chamber appreciates theProsperity Council’s effort to take a NA
Services inconsistent in how requirements are communicated and applied. AcrossCentral Oregon, employers continue to report permit delays, shifting better regulatory practices, strongerpublic access to information, and noticeably more predictable system.Applicants would know where their deliver timely, transparent, andmeasurable outcomes. State agencies improve permitting predictability andcoordination, including the FastTrack administration. In our view, the mostuseful models are states that offer needs often move at different speeds.Employers across Central Oregon and making career pathways easier forworkers to navigate. That includes more connected and responsive to bothemployers and workers. Employers The Legislature plays an important rolein aligning workforce funding with difference and should continue toreceive support. Community colleges connect education systems withindustry demand. Many have created always work together in a way thatallows businesses to move forward toolkit that helps communities moveprojects forward with greater certainty. A investment-ready sites and clearerpathways to move projects forward. programs that support site readiness,infrastructure development, and development are among the mostvaluable tools Oregon has to support land for development well before aspecific project is identified. These comprehensive look at Oregon’s long-term economic competitiveness.
expectations late in the review process, inconsistent communicationacross agencies, and uncertainty about what compliance will ultimately regular review of regulatory programs.That means clear timelines with permits stand, what is needed next, andwhen to expect a decision. Agencies must implement that expectationthrough clearer guidance, better Permitting Program structure andrelated streamlining efforts. We also reliable permit dashboards,coordinated project management consistently report difficulty findingworkers with the specific skills needed expanding partnerships betweenemployers, community colleges, would see stronger pipelines ofcandidates prepared for in-demand measurable outcomes and ensuringagencies have the flexibility to respond play a central role in delivering careerand technical education programs that employer-led sector partnershipswhere businesses help guide training with confidence. That challenge iscompounded by a tax structure that can strong starting point is expandinginvestments in industrial site Employers considering expansionwould find communities prepared with economic development coordination.State agencies must work together to economic growth. Investments that helpcommunities prepare land for programs typically combineinfrastructure investment, Across discussions about businessclimate, workforce alignment, and tools
require. These challenges are especially visible in housing, whereregulatory complexity, limited land availability, and cost drivers continue to accountability when agencies missthem; a more transparent public-facing would be working in closer coordinationamongst departments, and across coordination, and public-facingaccountability tools. Local governments want Oregon to continue supportingtools that help communities get across agencies, firm review timelines,and plain-language compliance tools for growing sectors such as healthcare,skilled trades, manufacturing, workforce boards, K–12 systems, andapprenticeship programs, so that jobs, particularly in sectors whereshortages have slowed economic to regional labor market needs. As thestate continues to invest in workforce prepare students for in-demandcareers while maintaining strong investments and curriculumdevelopment within key industries. make the state less competitive forinvestment. Employers looking to readiness, so that communities haveland that can be developed and suitable land, available infrastructure,and permitting processes that provide ensure those programs align withpermitting and land use processes, so employment uses make it far easier toattract new projects and support environmental review, and permittingpreparation, so that communities can for growth, one theme consistentlyemerges: Oregon has many strong
slow the production of needed units across much of the state. While somecommunities like Bend are making progress, many others are struggling to system where applicants can seepermit status, required materials, other agencies, to make decisionscollaboratively rather than in silos - also have an important role, especiallywhere state and local approvals projects ready to move, includingindustrial site readiness investments that make the process understandableto the public and regulated entities construction, and advanced technology.At the same time, many Oregonians are training reflects real job demand ratherthan projections alone. At the same growth.pathways into careers that provide Workers would have clearer and economic development programs,it will also be important to ensure that connections with local employers.Registered apprenticeship and pre- Some states have also built clearercareer pathway systems that allow expand or relocate often encounter acombination of limited site readiness, prepared with appropriate zoning,environmental review, and infrastructure reliable timelines.and economic development Local leaders that projects move efficiently fromplanning to construction. Local existing businesses looking to expand.Enterprise zones are also an offer truly shovel-ready sites toprospective employers. Some programs and shared goals, butgreater coordination and follow-through
produce housing at the pace and scale required, in part due to constraintsaround urban growth boundary flexibility, development timelines, and decision points, and agency contacts inone place; and plain-language resulting in fewer last-minute surprisesand duplicative processes. Oregon intersect, and where housing and sitereadiness depend on aligned timelines and practical housing production toolsthat make development pathways alike. We have also pointed toneighboring western states in other looking for pathways into stable, well-paying careers but struggle to navigate time, the state should look closely atregulatory barriers that limit access to economic mobility. Training programswould be easier to understand and Business Oregon has the capacity,structure, and clear accountability apprenticeship programs are alsovaluable tools for connecting workers to workers to move step-by-step fromentry-level training into higher-level infrastructure constraints, and complexland use and permitting processes, all planning before a project arrives.Infrastructure funding is another critical organizations would be able to respondquickly when opportunities emerge, governments and regional economicdevelopment organizations are important part of the state’s economicdevelopment toolkit and should states have also built strongeralignment between infrastructure will determine whether those effortstranslate into real economic outcomes.
policies that increase project costs.plan capital investments, hire employees, secure financing, and move That uncertainty makes it harder to guidance so businesses canunderstand compliance expectations would still maintain its environmental,land use, and consumer protections, and infrastructure planning. Employersand business organizations should workable rather than theoretical. Wherethe state has created programs that policy areas because they tend toprovide clearer legal frameworks and training options or access programsthat connect directly to job opportunities. training in high-demand fields.Adjustments such as more flexible access, with stronger connectionsbetween education programs and real needed to effectively deliver on therange of programs it oversees. skilled trades and other careerpathways while allowing individuals to credentials while continuing to work.These “stackable credential” layered on top of a corporate tax systemthat can feel unpredictable and piece. Transportation access, waterand wastewater systems, and energy rather than beginning the process ofassembling land, infrastructure, and essential partners because theyunderstand the specific needs and continue to be supported. They providea flexible, locally-driven mechanism for funding and economic developmentpriorities, ensuring transportation, experience the state’s systems asMany employers and communities
housing and business expansion projects forward. The Legislature mademeaningful progress this session by advancing permitting and process before they invest. It also meansrequiring cumulative impact review but with a stronger reputation for timelydecisions, transparent administration, stay at the table early to provideoperational feedback and identify where improve predictability, align agencies,modernize outdated thresholds, or help greater predictability, which helpsstabilize insurance markets and K–12 education, community colleges,Workforce programs exist across apprenticeship ratios, whilemaintaining strong standards for safety job opportunities.would see measurable improvements Communities Strengthening coordination, clarifyingroles, and maintaining a strong focus earn wages as they learn. Theseprograms are particularly effective approaches help workers advance overtime while ensuring training remains comparatively high relative toneighboring states. Oregon’s tax capacity often determine whether a sitecan realistically support new approvals after a project has alreadybeen proposed. That readiness helps opportunities within their communities.Their role in planning, zoning, and communities to partner with employerson job creation and capital investment, utilities, and other systems aredeveloped in ways that support job fragmented. Workforce programs, landuse planning, infrastructure investment,
improvements, and we appreciate that work. The next step is to build onthat foundation so regulatory systems are not just well-intentioned, but before new mandates take effect, withmeaningful business input earlier in the and practical implementation. From theChamber’s standpoint, success also implementation is breaking down inreal time. This is ultimately shared communities respond to real housingand infrastructure constraints, those investment decisions. Oregon does notneed to copy another state wholesale, workforce boards, state agencies, andindustry groups, yet they can feel and quality, can help expandparticipation and better meet workforce in labor force participation andworkforce readiness. Employers would on outcomes will help ensure theseinvestments translate into meaningful because they combine classroominstruction with hands-on training. relevant to employer needs.promising practice is stronger Another structure also creates challengesthrough the cumulative impact of development. Aligning infrastructureprograms with economic development communities compete more effectivelywith other states for investment. For infrastructure development helpsensure state investments translate into particularly in regions working todiversify their economies. The ability for creation and regional growth.Another effective approach is and regulatory processes are oftendesigned and administered in separate
predictable, transparent, and workable in practice. policy development process.major new regulatory programs, For means fewer projects dying on paperbecause of uncertainty, and more work, but the state has to lead bymaking predictability, transparency, and efforts should continue and bestrengthened. The most helpful policies but it should emulate the best practicesthat improve confidence: transparent fragmented from the perspective of bothemployers and job seekers. Programs needs in critical industries.Employers should be more directly spend less time struggling to fill keyroles, while more Oregonians would be workforce gains for both employers andworkers. Education and training Regional workforce boards and industrypartnerships help ensure workforce workforce data systems that trackemployment outcomes and wage multiple taxes and policy choices,including the Corporate Activity Tax and priorities would allow communities toprepare sites that are truly ready for existing Oregon businesses, successwould also mean fewer barriers when real, development-ready opportunities.Employers and industry partners also local governments to tailor agreementsbased on community needs, while coordinated project managementacross agencies for major economic channels, even though businessesexperience them all at once when
Oregon should use sunset clauses ormandatory legislative review dates, so housing, infrastructure, and businessinvestments actually moving into periodic review part of the design ofevery major regulatory program. are the ones that reduce uncertaintywithout lowering standards. permitting systems, fewer duplicativesteps, earlier stakeholder engagement, may operate in silos; funding streamsare often rigid, and training timelines involved in designing trainingprograms, particularly in high-demand moving into stable careers that matchtheir skills and aspirations. providers, including K–12 systems,community colleges, universities, and strategies reflect the needs of localeconomies. Maintaining and progression for graduates of trainingprograms. When policymakers and the state’s partial connection to thefederal tax code. These layers can investment.improve coordination across agencies The state can also they seek to grow locally. Expansionprojects would be easier to plan and have an important voice in identifyinginfrastructure needs, site requirements, giving employers a clearer path to offsetupfront costs, has made enterprise development projects. When statesdesignate a lead entity to help navigate deciding whether to invest or expand.Strengthening alignment across these
the state can assess whether a policyis improving outcomes, creating construction and operation. In thatenvironment, employers are more and automatic review or sunsetprovisions so policies are tested sometimes lag behind changes in thelabor market. The result is a system sectors where skills requirementsevolve quickly. Short-term credential apprenticeship programs, mustcontinue strengthening partnerships strengthening these collaborativemodels will be important as Oregon educators can see which programslead to real job placement and career make it difficult for businesses toforecast costs and evaluate long-term involved in land use, infrastructure, andpermitting decisions, so that projects execute, allowing employers to invest infacilities, add jobs, and strengthen and emerging opportunities. Whenbusinesses are engaged early in the zones a practical and effective toolacross Central Oregon. Regional permitting, infrastructure, and regulatoryrequirements, businesses and systems would make existing policiesmore effective and help communities
unintended costs, or simply layering onmore complexity. This should be paired willing to grow here because they canprice risk more confidently and make against outcomes rather than left inplace indefinitely without evaluation. that works hard but does not alwaysadapt quickly enough to meet the programs, apprenticeships, andindustry-recognized certifications can with employers, so that curricula reflectreal-world skill demands. Employers continues working to align workforcedevelopment with economic growth. advancement, it becomes easier todirect resources toward strategies that investments, particularly when taxliability is not always aligned with move through the system in a morepredictable way. When economic regional economies. process, communities can betterprepare sites and infrastructure that collaboration remains another strengthworth continuing. Economic communities can move projectsforward with greater clarity and respond more quickly whenopportunities arise. Predictability is
with clearer expectations aroundrulemaking timelines, more frequent long-term plans with greater certainty. evolving needs of employers orworkers. Oregon has made help workers move into careers fasterwhile giving employers confidence that also have a critical role to play byparticipating in program design, offering are working.many of the building blocks for these Oregon already has profitability.activity tax and overall business tax Oregon’s corporate development tools (site readinessprograms, permitting processes, and meet real market demand. development organizations, chambersof commerce, and local governments efficiency.many of the building blocks needed for Oregon already has also essential to Oregon’s long-termcompetitiveness. Employers making
program review, and stronger oversightto ensure agencies stay within their meaningful investments in workforcedevelopment, and many local training reflects current workplaceneeds. Greater transparency in internships and apprenticeships, andcommunicating evolving workforce approaches – now the opportunity is tostrengthen coordination, improve structure can create uncertainty forcompanies evaluating long-term infrastructure investments) aredesigned to work together, often work together to identifyopportunities and respond to business this kind of system. Strengtheningcoordination, expanding site readiness multi-year investments need confidencethat the regulatory environment will be
intended scope. Providing that level ofaccountability helps prevent scope partnerships are strong. Theopportunity now is to strengthen workforce data would also help.Employers, educators, and needs. Workforce boards and regionaleconomic development organizations transparency, and ensure workforceinvestments remain closely aligned investments, particularly when thosecosts are difficult to forecast or are not communities are better positioned toattract new employers and support the needs and state programs thatreinforce those partnerships help investments, and aligning infrastructurewith economic development priorities transparent, understandable, andconsistently implemented.
Bryan Steelman 97212 Organization/Business Por Qué No Taqueria Public Food and NA 21-100 people Business climate the biggest friction point is that the issues of lawlessness, drug use and creep over time and ensures regulatoryframeworks remain aligned withAccountability for lawlessness and drug Portland has houseless services and local governments & legislature in Portland we have Portland Street NA No NA NA alignment so that training pathways areclearer, more flexible, and moreNA policymakers should have access toclear information about job demand,NA NA can serve as key connectors, helpingalign local industries, educationNA NA with the needs of employers and theopportunities available to OregonNA NA NA clearly tied to profitability. Whencombined with delays in permitting orNA expansion of existing businesses.NA NA NA ensure economic developmentstrategies reflect local realities.NA would help the state compete moreeffectively for new investment whileNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Improvements in permitting timelines,public access to regulatory information,I love Oregon and the city of Portland, NA
Beverage general trashiness that is allowed in the City of Portland, and has been thenorm for 6 years now, is devestating to small businesses that rely on the use and a keen focus on workingtowards creating a clean and well housing that is making a positiveimpact and walking in the city goes Response, which I celebrated for thepotential of this level of first responder, and just want to see a government thatis trying to make the environment safe
community coming out to support because the issues are not takenseriously, and community and travelers do not feel as comfortable as pre- functioning city. back to generally not seeing folks insome phase of deep drug stupors as but in the end they generally do nothingif the person that they are responding for the population and welcoming forsmall business and takes care of the
pandemic in being out in the city, supporting the small businesscommunity. the norm. for says that they are having a bad day,even if that person is in a violent drug folks that are struggling.
rage and throwing things like A-framesigns at windows and yelling at
pedestrians. It's a frustrating waste atthis point, but has so much potential for
being a point of safety for both the folkshaving an issue and those calling about
the issue.
Charles Gehr 97540 Both Native Fish Society Non-profit NA Native FishConservatio 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Oregon has abundant natural resources that are not being managedsustainably. In the case of wild anadromous fish, Iwould like to see the state invest in Robust, self-sustaining fishpopulations. Similar to Oregon coastal ODFW, DEQ, OWEB, DSL Oregon has a proven recipe forabundance with coastal coho. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon's abundant natural resourcesare a draw for many people and drive NA
n healthy, barrier-free rivers instead ofinvesting in the hatchery system. That coho. sustainable economies in rural areas.Resource extraction and poor
requires monetary investment in barrierremoval and habitat projects as well as management policies provide a short-term economic boost, yet harm the long-
monitoring to ensure sustainablefisheries. term economic sustainability.
Jennifer Krauel 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce The biggest barrier for people coming into the area is ensuring a stableinfrastructure. That means good schools, good transit options, programs Expand the current Preschool for Allbeyond Multnomah county. I'm an Skilled workers want to move to Oregonbecause they know their families will Government needs to step out of thefear/poverty mindset and tax wealthy Preschool for All! We already have amodel program here, just keep funding Preschool for All! We already have amodel program here, just keep funding No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please do not try to maximize growthwithout ensuring that we have a healthy NA
like Preschool for All to manage childcare costs. example of a wealthy person who cameto Oregon at the end of covid, and I flourish here. They can afford housingand child care, their local schools are people and big corporations. It's just nottrue that wealthy people will leave if they it already it already environment with enough clean water,clean energy, and community
strongly encourage you to tax me andothers to fund these programs. excellent, they are able to takeconvenient transit options so they don't have to pay taxes! And honestly if theyaren't willing to support the state that is infrastructure to support a healthypopulation. Do not subsidize large
need to cover automobile ownershipcosts. enabling their wealth, we should notwelcome them or subsidize their businesses like data centers withoutensuring they will actually provide lots of
businesses. Taking that positionpublicly would be hugely popular. jobs and they don't pollute theenvironment or cause us to miss our
clean energy goals. DO NOT SELL USOUT to tech companies and billionaires
who will not deliver on their emptypromises.
Nicholas Farina 97212 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon has a well-earned reputation of being hostile to business. Fix it. Reform the Oregon DFR, whichneedlessly bankrupted our company New startups should wish to locate andincorporate in Oregon, instead of Legislature Can't think of anything we've benefitedfrom in 25 years here. We haven't started businesses in otherstates. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Be curious, not judgmental NA
due to poor communication anddelaying tactics. Bring back the QSBS seeking ways to leave. (Friends I knowwith businesses that can be moved,
benefit for startups, or prevent it frombeing repealed. have moved already)
Jessie Kochaver 97211 Organization/Business The Oregon Clean GridCollaborative (OCGC) Non-profit NA Cleanenergy 21-100 people Tools for growth Oregon’s economic growth is becoming increasingly constrained by thestate’s electrical grid. The state’s energy demand, including from large Oregon should take a more proactiveapproach to enabling and encouraging Success in the next 2-3 years wouldmean that Oregon has made Achieving this requires coordinationand action across all sectors and levels Oregon has several strong forums andfoundations that should be continued, One promising model is Washington’sSB 6355, which established a Yes NA Key consideration for all focusareas A key consideration while looking at thestate’s economic future is how to NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Oregon Clean Grid Collaborativerepresents environmental justice, NA
energy users like data centers, is rising rapidly, while transmissionbuildout, interconnection timelines, and clean energy procurement are not grid expansion as a key aspect ofeconomic growth. Priority actions meaningful and measurable progressin aligning grid infrastructure with of government.authorize new tools, align incentives, -State legislature: to referenced, and/ or expanded upon.Executive Order 25-29, particularly as it - transmission authority to helpcoordinate planning, streamline balance the need for acceleratedinfrastructure development with ratepayer, conservation, labor, andclean energy advocates from across
keeping pace. This is creating a fundamental economic challenge–businesses, utilities, and communities lack certainty that clean, affordable, should include:delivering on the directive in Executive -Not only expediently economic growth.-Transmission projects built on This would include: and support transmissiondevelopment, funding, and governance. relates to creating a strategictransmission siting framework -HB permitting, and support financing formajor projects. Washington’s meaningful community engagement. AsOregon works to fast-track Oregon who are committed to ensuringthat Oregon transitions quickly,
and reliable energy will be available when and where it is needed.same time, these challenges are not evenly distributed. Without proactive At the Order 25-29 to establish a frameworkfor identifying priority transmission accelerated timelines, and increasedclean energy projects getting connected -State agencies: to lead regulatoryreforms, provide oversight, and create 2021 (2021), the Climate ProtectionProgram, and Executive Order 20-04 all legislature was modeled after thesuccess of other states’ transmission transmission and energy infrastructuredevelopment, it is essential to: - efficiently, and equitably to clean energy.Specifically, we seek to ensure that grid
planning, infrastructure is more likely to be sited in lower-income andenvironmental justice communities without clear or early engagement; corridors, but also building on thatframework to actively advance projects to the grid. -Improved affordability andelectricity rate stability, particularly for pathways for achieving transmissionand clean energy buildout to facilitate provide the foundation, statutory targets,and clean energy goals for Oregon - authorities including Colorado ElectricTransmission Authority (CETA) and Engage communities meaningfully andearly in the planning process -Ensure planning, governance, markets, andinvestments are aligned to maximize
costs may be shifted onto existing customers, including small businessesand households; and economic benefits may concentrate among a small within those corridors. This meansaccelerating siting, permitting, small businesses and low-incomehouseholds. -Greater access to clean economic growth.include but are not limited to the Oregon Key agencies Ongoing work at the Oregon PublicUtility Commission to integrate Grid New Mexico’s Renewable EnergyTransmission Authority (RETA). A transparency around project impactsand benefits -Prioritize projects that the power of the grid and prioritizereliability; accelerate grid
number of large actors rather than being broadly shared.moment requires Oregon to modernize and expand its grid– particularly Meeting the financing, and construction. -Streamline and coordinate permitting and reliable energy for small and locallyowned businesses, not just large Department of Energy, Department ofLand Conservation and Development, Enhancing Technologies (GETs) intoutility planning (UM 2409). -Integrated transmission authority can: -Coordinate planning among utilities improve affordability, reliability,resilience, and economic opportunity for decarbonization; equitably, affordably,and reliably deliver clean energy
transmission– while coordinating grid-wide solutions and distributedsolutions, improving planning processes, and ensuring that economic processes across agencies for gridinfrastructure, including finding areas energy users. -Demonstrated use ofdistributed clean energy solutions, and the Public Utility Commission.Secondary agencies include Oregon Resource Plan (IRP) processes thatalign long-term energy needs with and across the region -Reducedevelopment timelines by coordinating host communitiesimportant in environmental justice This is particularly resources to end users and prioritizecommunity benefits; support
development delivers real benefits to communities.-Transmission siting and permitting delays, which slow clean energy Key barriers include: where concurrent review is possiblethat reduces unnecessary delays and including microgrids, virtual powerplants, community solar, and more, to Department of Fish and Wildlife andOregon Department of Agriculture. - procurement. -Microgrid and resilienceinitiatives that support local reliability with permitting agencies -Improvecoordination across agencies and communities, where infrastructureinvestments have historically been sited meaningful economic development inthe region that prioritizes family-wage
development and directly limit businesses’ access to power, threateningboth new business opportunities and the ability of existing businesses to maintains the integrity of the publicprocess and environmental review. - support reliability and communityresilience -Clear and consistent Tribal Governments: to engage in earlyand meaningful Tribal consultation to and community benefits. -The OregonEnergy Strategy, which provides a jurisdictions -Provide greater certaintyto communities about benefits and without adequate benefits. job creation in Oregon; and minimizeimpacts to environmental and cultural
expand. -Federal funding uncertainty, including changes and reductions torenewable energy tax credits that are putting Oregon clean energy projects Greater cross-agency coordination with‘secondary-energy focused state guidelines for community engagementpractices, with visible benefits for host ensure that Tribes are purposefullyincluded in planning, policy, and direction for long-term systemtransformation. -HB 2475 (2021) impacts of projectstransmission authority in Oregon could Adopting a resources.Clean Grid Collaborative include: Members of the Oregon
at risk. -Federal permitting and agency uncertainty, including shifting lawsand ongoing changes at the Bonneville Power Administration that are agencies’, such as the OregonDepartment of Fish and Wildlife and communities.show measurable movement towards a Overall, success would investment decision-making on energyinfrastructure siting. To identify Energy Affordability Act, must continue,and the state should explore additional help position transmission as coreeconomic infrastructure and accelerate Affiliated Tribes of Northwest IndiansBlueGreen Alliance Climate Solutions
creating bottlenecks in the deployment of new transmission and generationprojects. -Misalignment of economic incentives, where large-scale Oregon Department of Agriculture toencourage early engagement on project more reliable, affordable, and cleanenergy system that supports both opportunities to facilitate Tribally-ownedand Tribally-informed clean energy ways to support households andbusinesses across the state as we its buildout.consider centralized planning and Another approach is to Community Energy Project GreenEnergy Institute at Lewis & Clark Law
developments and businesses may receive substantial benefits withoutclear alignment to local economic development, community needs, or design and mitigation strategies,resulting in better sited projects and community well-being and businessdevelopment. development. -Regional partners:Including utilities and transmission navigate the clean energy transition. procurement for long lead resourcessuch as transmission, akin to School National Wildlife FederationNW Energy Coalition Oregon Business
expanded grid capacity. -Community and landowner opposition, oftenresulting from insufficient early engagement or unclear local benefits. - reduced opposition and projecttimelines. -Adequately fund and staff providers (primarily Bonneville PowerAdministration) to align planning and California’s AB 1373 (CentralizedProcurement). AB 1373 was signed in for Climate Oregon Citizens’ UtilityBoard Oregon Environmental Council
Affordability challenges, particularly for small businesses and residentialcustomers. Residential customers are already struggling with high costs, state agencies such as OregonDepartment of Energy, Department of investments with state priorities.Local governments and communities: - 2023 and authorizes the state tocentrally procure clean energy– Oregon Just Transition Alliance OregonLeague of Conservation Voters
Jake Madison 97826 Organization/Business Madison Ranches Inc. Private NA Agriculture 101-500 people Business climate and cannot afford to shoulder the costs of building out and modernizing thegrid, particularly in historically underserved communities.The states environmental and natural resources-based agencies (OWRD) These barriers Land Conservation and Development,and the Public Utility Commission toThe disconnect between the Growth in the natural resources based to engage early and effectively in sitingand planning of economic developmentGovernor: Set the expectations of the The Oregon Solutions process is a specifically large-scale projects likeoffshore wind and geothermal—to meetas far as DEQ is concerned, literally No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Renewable Northwest The NatureConservancy VerdeBusinesses will continue to leave the NA
have taken on a police state attitude vs a recourse management attitude. Byand large there is absolutely zero effort to understand the users needs of environmental and natural resource-based agencies and the business economies such as agriculture, foodprocessing, construction, and timber agencies and hold them accountable.They are running amuck and making good process. Empower them more.Oregon is very diverse and each region pick any state around us. They all havebetter programs based on actual state or expand outside of the stateunless Oregon takes this prosperity
the resources to ensure an end goal can be reached that achievesenvironmental and resource protection while simultaneously allowing for world needs to be addressed. They canand should do their jobs while management. the governor and the business look badfor no reason. There needs to be a needs its own representation as ourneeds are unique. science, not an uneducated guesses orestimation. project seriously. If it was easy to movea farm, I would have by now.
business to succeed. I'm the 4th generation to run this farm and I'm activelytelling the 5th to not come back because fighting every single day to protect promoting growth, not killing it. clear set of expectations developed bythe Governor with the agencies and
my business and our way of life from these agencies is going to kill mebefore they get a chance to come back from college. If I could move my farm business community and then theagencies need to be held accountable
to a state that appreciated it, I would in a heartbeat. The legacy of this farmand many like it are going to die without a change of course in Oregon's for their actions.need to modernize water law and Legislature: We
environmental and water resource agencies. memorialize it. Why are we stillmanaging water based on law and
systems developed in the 1800's.Agencies: Need to be held accountable
to achieve a common goal and to notspread misinformation that riles up
NGO's and leads to lawsuits. I'mwrapped up in a class action lawsuit
that has the implications to jeopardizethe entire agricultural industry
nationwide because of things grosslymisrepresented by DEQ.
Eric Rosenfeld 97205 Both Oregon Venture Fund Private NA venturecapital 1 - 20 people Business climate SB 1507 and the proposed elimination of Qualified Small Business Stock Veto SB 1507. Preserve QSBS.Encourage local entrepreneurship and A tax structure more in line with otherstates. Financially successful families Governor would need to veto SB 1507.Legislature would need to preserve Business Oregon and the OregonGrowth Board. States that offer lower taxes onbusiness and on financially successful No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Thank you! OVF%20Impact%20of%20QSBS%2003-20-2026.pdf
local investing.rate and increase the threshold to Estate tax: reduce the choosing to move to, and stay in,Oregon. QSBS. families are raising more overall taxrevenue because of economic
discourage successful families fromleaving Oregon. inmigration and growth.
Nora Apter 97213 Organization/Business Climate Solutions Non-profit NA Cleanenergy 1 - 20 people Tools for growth A central challenge for Oregon is that the state has many of the ingredientsneeded to compete in the global clean energy economy, but has not yet fully Oregon can strengthen its businessclimate while attracting and sustaining In two to three years, success wouldmean Oregon is capitalizing on its This will require coordinated actionacross state government, local Oregon should double down on thepolicies and programs that provide Oregon should look to states that defineeconomic competitiveness in terms of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As Oregon continues to work on its long-term structural funding issues in NA
translated those strengths into the scale of investment and job growth thatshould be possible. The state’s long-term economic competitiveness new and existing businesses bytreating climate and clean energy policy climate and clean energy leadership todeliver concrete economic gains. That governments, utilities, employers, andworkforce and education partners. market certainty, help lower energycosts over time, and keep more affordability, reliability, market certainty,and long-term resilience Oregon transportation, we wanted to highlighthow clean, multimodal transportation
depends on successfully implementing and building on its climate andclean energy framework, but that connection is not always reflected in how as a core economic development assetand pairing that policy certainty with would include visible progress on cleanenergy deployment, transmission and The Legislature has a central role inmaintaining policy certainty, protecting economic value in-state.importantly, that includes the Climate Most should look to states that are investingaggressively in transmission, grid investments are essential for a healthyand thriving economy. Leaning into
Oregon defines a “competitive business climate.” Oregon’s climate andclean energy policies are central to job creation, affordability, and long-term targeted investment andimplementation tools needed to grid readiness, and industrial sitepreparation; increased investment in and funding key clean energy andincentive programs, and investing in Protection Program and HB 2021,which help create the long-term modernization, and industrial powerreadiness, because access to reliable clean transportation is an economicdevelopment strategy, not a drag on
business resilience, and should therefore be treated as a core economicdevelopment strategy. Oregon has strong economic assets to build on. maximize in-state economic benefitsfrom the clean energy transition. First, state incentive programs (see above);and more companies choosing to grid and transmission readiness.Governor’s office and relevant state The demand and policy predictabilityneeded for businesses to invest in and affordable electricity is increasinglycentral to industrial competitiveness. growth. States like California haveshown that stable clean-transportation
The 2025 Oregon Energy Strategy found that achieving Oregon’s energypolicy objectives is expected to generate substantial net job growth across the state should maintain and buildupon existing climate and clean energy invest, expand, manufacture, or hire inOregon because the state offers a agencies, including ODOE, BusinessOregon, and other implementing clean energy technologies andinfrastructure. These policies also help Oregon should also emulate states thatuse public policy to keep more energy- policy helps attract manufacturing andsupply-chain investment; California now
Oregon’s energy sectors. E2’s 2025 Clean Jobs America report found thatOregon already employs 57,860 workers in the clean energy economy, with policies, including the ClimateProtection Program, HB 2021, and stable market, reliable power,transparent and accelerated siting and agencies, need to align economicdevelopment strategy with Oregon’s reduce Oregon’s exposure to fossil fuelvolatility by accelerating the transition to related value in-state through localmanufacturing, procurement, and reports 55 ZEV-related manufacturingcompanies and more than 26,100
especially strong concentrations in construction and manufacturing, andthat clean energy jobs have grown 11.2% since 2020. According to ODOE’s related policies that create long-termmarket certainty. Climate and clean permitting, and a clear long-termdirection. Success would also mean climate and energy framework andensure that businesses, households, cleaner and more stable energysources. Oregon should also supply-chain development. Public andprivate investment strategies that manufacturing jobs. This does notcapture other jobs in energy generation,
modeling, strong implementation of the Oregon Energy Strategy’srecommendations is projected to add up to 16,500 jobs by 2035. energy policies give Oregon theopportunity to spur job growth and Oregon is keeping more energy dollarsin-state and reducing exposure to and communities can accessincentives and infrastructure continue demand-side and deploymentincentives, including the Heat Pump support homegrown clean energyindustries can strengthen regional grid investments, storage, and otherneeded energy investments that will be
Recognizing the magnitude of this economic opportunity, In November2025, Governor Kotek issued Executive Order 25-29 directing state technological innovation, improve publichealth, and increase affordable access volatile fossil fuel costs. A commitmentto expanding our clean energy economy investments efficiently.regulators, and transmission planners Utilities, Deployment Program, EV and ChargeAhead Rebates, Solar + Storage economies while reducing exposure toimported fossil fuel costs. States that supported by electrification.Oregon, transportation electrification For
agencies to prioritize implementation of the Strategy’s least-cost cleanenergy pathways. At the same time, climate change is already imposing to cleaner, cheaper, healthier energyand transportation options for Oregon means investing in Oregon-basedenergy infrastructure, contractors, need to address electricity supply andgrid-capacity constraints so Oregon can Rebates, Medium- and Heavy-DutyVehicle Rebates, Community integrate climate resilience intoeconomic planning offer an important also reduces exposure to volatile globaloil prices by shifting more
real and growing economic costs on Oregon. As highlighted in ODOE’smost recent Biennial Energy Report and Oregon Climate Change households, businesses, andcommunities. They also help drive manufacturers, and workers, ratherthan sending billions of dollars out of provide the reliable, affordable cleanpower needed for new and expanding Renewable Energy programs, andEnergy Trust of Oregon programs. model. Oregon should recognize thatreducing emissions, strengthening transportation spending towardelectricity, increasingly generated from
Research Institute (OCCRI)’s climate assessments, Oregon has seen asharp rise in costly extreme weather, wildfire, drought, and heat impacts. In demand for in-state clean energyprojects, support private investment, state for fossil fuels. It should alsotranslate into lower risk for businesses industrial loads and for broaderelectrification. Local governments play These programs help households andbusinesses reduce energy costs, infrastructure, and loweringdependence on volatile fossil fuels are resources available here in the PacificNorthwest. Oregon’s own energy
the last five and a half years, Oregon’s governors issued 97 emergencydeclarations in response to extreme weather-related events. According to and create the market certaintybusinesses need when making long- and households through more stableenergy prices and improved resilience. an important role in permitting,infrastructure coordination, and support adoption of cleanertechnologies, and generate local all part of building a durable businessclimate in an era of increasing climate modeling finds that delayingtransportation electrification increases
NOAA data, Oregon experienced 41 confirmed weather and climatedisaster events between 1980-2024 with losses exceeding $1 billion each. term decisions. As Governor Kotek’s2024 Oregon Clean Tech Task Force success would look like. The case for aThere is no need to postulate what community-level implementation.Education and training partners, labor, economic activity through installation,maintenance, supply chains, and disruption. economy-wide costs, including roughly$31 billion in added costs by 2050 from
The most recent drought and extreme heat event in 2023 caused $14.8billion in damages and 247 documented deaths. A 2024 report from the concluded, by building on Oregon’strack record of adopting ambitious yet clean energy economy in Oregon hasbeen proven. In 2001 Sherman County and employers all have an importantrole in ensuring Oregon develops the related services.should strengthen programs related to In addition, Oregon slower medium- and heavy-dutyelectrification. Multiple studies show
Liisa Bozinovic 97201 Organization/Business Oregon Life Sciences Non-profit Bioscience NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Forum on Oregon Climate Economics estimated that the averageOregonian could lose roughly $12,000 in personal income per year due toNA flexible clean energy policies, the statecan drive the clean tech market to scaleNA became home to Klondike I, one of thefirst utility-scale wind farms in Oregon.NA workforce needed to support growingclean energy, construction,NA grid modernization, clean techinnovation, and commercialization.NA NA Yes Tools for growth NA zz zz zz zz zz zz No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA that delaying the electrification oftransportation results in billions ofNA NA
Amanda Duncan 97005 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth I would like to see the prosperity council address how to accelerateOregon's transition to clean energy. The transition to clean energy is a huge Maintain and strengthen the state’sexisting climate and clean energy Oregon is successful in attracting cleanenergy projects. The electrical grid is We need the Oregon legislature tomaintain and expand clean energy HB 2021, the Climate ProtectionProgram, the Clean Fuels Program, NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
opportunity for Oregon's economy, promising new job jobs, protectingresidents and businesses from fossil fuel price volatility, and keeping policies such as the Climate ProtectionProgram and HB 2021. Ensure that keeping up with demand and deliveringclean, affordable energy. policies, state agencies to implementthe policies effectively, and utilities to state rebate and incentive programs forheat pumps and electric vehicles
money spent on energy inside the state. To achieve these benefits, thestate will need to address the need for clear and stable policies that drive economic development strategies arealigned with clean energy goals. make the necessary gridenhancements.
and support clean energy investments and the limitations in our currentelectrical grid. Accelerate the development of theelectrical grid to increase its capacity
and resilience, including the ability toincorporated Distributed Virtual Power
Plants (also known as Community-Based Power).
