programs, Portland and Multnomah County public and private-sector leaders
call on our partners in the Oregon State Legislature to support targeted
strategic investments. Together, we have identified key investments that are
most critical to support the Portland region’s long-term economic health, thus
sustaining the rest of the state.
Support professional sports, arts, and entertainment franchises, organizations, and venues
 Support the We Play for Portland coalition and the Portland Trail
Blazers to ensure Portland remains Rip City for future generations of
Oregonians and to support the growth of the WNBA. In addition to
being the home of the Blazers, the Moda Center is one of Oregon’s
largest and most important entertainment venues where millions of
Oregonians gather every year. It is also the oldest NBA arena to
have never undergone a major renovation. We support SB 1501 and
renovations to Oregon’s Arena (Moda Center).
 In 2025, the Portland Trail Blazers, Timbers, Oregon Symphony,
Oregon Ballet Theatre, Portland Art Museum, Sport Oregon,
Portland Metro Chamber and others founded the We Play for
Portland Coalition to work together to attract more fans, increase
support, and revitalize Portland through sports, arts, and culture.
While the organizations offer different types of events, they share a
deep connection to the city and its public-owned performance halls
and sports facilities.
 To fully realize the potential of riverfront major league baseball and
the investments made in Portland’s waterfront, we must also ensure
a healthy Willamette River. We support a request for $1M in state
funding to restore river flow to the Ross Island lagoon. This will
address this recurring threat to public health and human activity in
the river paving the way to realizing the full economic and cultural
impact of a Major League Baseball franchise, a waterfront stadium,
the Albina Rose Alliance, and a fully modernized, activated
Waterfront. Metro, Multnomah County, and the City of Portland have
committed funding to the project.
Invest in the circular economy
 Turn waste into wealth by supporting HB 4086 to fund $225K each
for four communities to identify and advance a high-potential
industrial symbiosis (IS) project that strengthens local industry,
