Dear Members of the Governor’s Prosperity Council,
On behalf of Building Resilience, a statewide coalition of climate justice and public health, business and labor, faith and
frontline communities, environmental, family, and youth organizations, and thousands of individual Oregonians, we share
the attached brief, Smarter Buildings for a Stronger Oregon Economy, as a resource for the Council’s work.
It is our deeply held belief that prosperity is not a number on a balance sheet. It cannot be measured by GDP, the profits
of our largest industries, or Oregon's ranking on a business climate index. Enterprise, sustainable innovation, and
economic growth have their place in measuring prosperity. Prosperity in the long-term is investments that broaden
opportunity for all Oregonians and strengthen our long-term trajectory, not trading away our health, safety, and joy in the
pursuit of more profit for the few.
Oregon’s prosperity is measured by the experience of our residents. It is felt in whether a family can afford to live in a
home in the community where they work, whether families can afford their utility bills, whether a parent has access to
quality childcare so they can contribute fully to their community, and whether the infrastructure of daily life– homes,
buildings, schools, roads, public health– is strong enough and clean enough to support a thriving society. A truly thriving
state is not simply a cheap state or one that myopically proposes tax breaks for corporations and the most wealthy — it is
an affordable one for all Oregonians, and a capable one, with an educated workforce, resilient communities, and a quality
of life that attracts the most talented people and the most innovative firms.
This Council’s work offers an important opportunity to connect Oregon’s economic strategy with its homes and
businesses. The following brief pulls from multiple sources of recent research and demonstrates the need to prioritize
investments in:
● Business Climate: Reducing Costs, Increasing Competitiveness, and Protecting Oregon Businesses from Energy
Volatility
● Workforce: Building the Trades Pipeline for Oregon's Fastest-Growing Energy Sector
● Equity, Resilience, and a Managed Transition: Ensuring the Economic Benefits Are Broadly Shared
● Tools for Growth: Incentives, Land Use, and Economic Development Tools for the Electrification Era
Policies that advance healthy, affordable, resilient homes and buildings that run on renewable energy are not
separate, and should not be separate from economic policy; they are economic policy. The quality, efficiency, and
resilience of our buildings directly affect the strength and success of our people and economy.
Sincerely,
The Building Resilience Steering Committee
