• Slide 9: “Democratic support for Democratic candidates is softer than Republican support for
Republican candidates.” (showing preference by party)
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
Voters are pessimistic about Oregon’s economy and are struggling to make ends meet. 73% rate
Oregon’s economic conditions as poor, an increase from 60% in 2021. Only 20% rate the economy as good.
These ratings are shared across region and income levels, with a minimum of 70% of voters in the Portland
metro area, Willamette Valley, and the rest of the state rating conditions as poor; along with a minimum of 69%
across all income groups. Partisan ratings are more mixed, with 89% of Republicans, 74% of NAV/Other voters,
and 58% of Democrats rating the state’s economy as poor.
68% of voters say economic conditions in Oregon are getting worse, an increase from 62% in 2021. 27% say
economic conditions are staying the same. Only 2% say they are getting better. Voters are more likely to blame
Governor Kotek than either President Trump or the Oregon Legislature for the state’s worsening economic
conditions. Among those who say economic conditions are getting worse, 43% blame Governor Kotek, while
29% blame President Trump, and 22% blame state legislators. Democrats are more likely to blame Governor
Kotek than Republicans are to blame Trump: 14% of Democrats blame Governor Kotek, while only 2% of
Republicans hold President Trump responsible.
Roughly half the state’s voters say it’s difficult to pay for basic expenses. 51% find it difficult to pay for groceries,
46% for healthcare, 46% for home energy bills, 44% for auto insurance, and 43% for home mortgage or rent.
Lower-income and middle-income voters have the greatest difficulty paying for basic expenses, with a
minimum of 50% across both income levels reporting difficulties. For voters in low-income households earning
less than $50,000, 70% say it’s difficult to pay for groceries.
Consider:
• Slide 10: “Most voters currently rate economic conditions in Oregon as poor. The negative outlook has
increased since 2021.” (showing OBI survey ratings over time)
• Slide 11: “Most groups rate Oregon’s economic conditions as poor. Partisanship shapes perceptions of
the economy.” (showing 2026 ratings by area, party, and income)
• Slide 12: “Most voters say economic conditions in Oregon are getting worse.” (showing OBI survey
outlook over time)
• Slide 13: “Voters are more likely to back Governor Kotek for Oregon’s worsening economic conditions.”
(showing who to blame)
• Slide 14: “More Democrats blame Governor Kotek than Republicans blame Trump, with NAV/Other
voters more likely to blame Governor Kotek.” (showing blame by party)
• Slide 15: “About half of voters have difficulties paying basic expenses.” (showing difficulty in various
areas)
• Slide 16: “Middle-income and lower-income voters have the most difficulty paying basic expenses.”
(showing difficulty by income level)
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Voters say the state’s economic growth rate is slower than the national average and blame high taxes
and excessive regulations. 52% say the growth rate is slower than the national average, 42% say it’s about the
3 | DHM Research | OBI Legislative Survey | January 2026
