Michael G Fiore 97224 Organization/Business Fought & Co | REFA Erection Private Metals andMachinery SteelFabrication 101-500 people Business climate A rising tide lifts all ships — but only if we choose to create the tide. GetOregon’s economy moving again so we can build big things, expand If there is one structural reform I wouldprioritize, it is open primaries. A true three-year win would be Oregonback in the top 15 % of places where 100% - the state legislature andgovernor own this. They have the Lets revisit this when the economyshifts. We are not currently winning, Look at Michigan, Texas, Arizona, andFlorida. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I bristle at the notion of a “ProsperityCouncil.” If prosperity requires a council NA
and steelerection opportunity, and make it easier — not harder — to grow employeeheadcount. Fought and REFA will compete and win on merit. The question Governance should reward results, notpartisan insulation. Too often, elected business can grow — a competitiveenvironment that attracts investment, combined focus of a toddler - nodisrespect to toddlers. this is an inappropriate question. to study it, we are already admitting thatgovernance has drifted from its primary
is whether state leadership is ready to compete for growth with the sameseriousness business has been asking for. officials — including the Governor —confuse political preservation with expands jobs, and makes building anddoing business here easier and more responsibility. The path to growth is notmysterious. Competitive tax policy,
economic leadership. Governance winswhen growth wins. Politics wins when rewarding than elsewhere. regulatory clarity, disciplined spending,workforce development, and respect for
incentives distort accountability.Handouts do not expand a state’s GDP. enterprise are not novel ideas. They arewell understood drivers of economic
Productive enterprise does. If we wantOregon to grow, we must create strength. When leaders form councilsinstead of acting on what is already
conditions where businesses invest,hire, and build — not where they known, it risks becoming cover for asystem unwilling to confront its own
navigate shifting political winds. policy failures. Prosperity does notcome from advisory panels. It comes
from courage — from elected officialswilling to make hard decisions that
restore competitiveness and rewardproductive activity.
Christopher Hazen 97403 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Preparing and training young people for the roles for which there will bedemand in future, starting in secondary school. Incentivize closer collaboration bystaff/admin secondary and tertiary In 3 years, 50% of young people aged14 to 24 have participated in at least 3 Legislate funding to support programadministration -- existing school staff Student Success Act CYBHI of California:https://cybhi.chhs.ca.gov/ No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA None NA
institutions with both public and privatesector employers in developing if not opportunities to "try out" different roles,role play in the classroom, and observe won't have "free time" to design andbuild these partnerships--and include
delivering curriculum. diverse working environments for a day. "incentive compensation" for schoolsthat quickly go further. Employers
shouldn't need incentives to invest timecultivating future employees.
Pamela de Jong 97420 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Workforce housing for the rural coastal areas. Making permitting easier. Alsoencouraging incentives to build Available housing for communities thatare currently bursting at the seams with local governments, training partners fortrained workers in construction, These are my observations. I am notpart of the industry. I advise business I have not researched that. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Lee Richardson 97306 Both Richardson Poultry, LLC Public Food and NA 21-100 people Business climate The biggest barrier small business owners face in Oregon today is the workforce housing.If the goal is real prosperity, Oregon people and not enough housing.Success in 2–3 years would look education.1. Oregon Legislature The Legislature owners on their investments.At present, it is difficult to point to a Several states have implemented pro- No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If the Prosperity Council truly wants NA
Beverage Oregon Corporate Activity Tax (CAT). While its intent may have been tobroaden the tax base, the CAT has become a significant drag on growth for must become structurally competitiveagain. That starts with reforming the measurable, not rhetorical.would see net positive small business First, we must reform or repeal the CorporateActivity Tax, reduce regulatory burdens, specific statewide program thatmeaningfully offsets the structural growth policies that Oregon shouldseriously evaluate. 1. No Gross prosperity, it must address a coreissue: Oregon’s economic strategy
Main Street businesses that operate with slim margins. Unlike traditionalnet income taxes, the CAT is levied on gross receipts, meaning Corporate Activity Tax and reducing thefriction that discourages investment. formation in Oregon, with morebusinesses opening than closing. The and commit to structural taxcompetitiveness. They also must challenges created by Oregon’s tax andregulatory environment — particularly Receipts Tax Models (e.g., Washingtonreform discussions, Idaho, Utah) feels reactive and revenue-driven ratherthan growth-driven. The state cannot
businesses must pay tax on revenue even when they are not profitable.This disproportionately harms small and early-stage companies that are 1. Reform or Repeal the CorporateActivity Tax (CAT) The CAT’s gross current outflow of employers relocatingto lower-tax, lower-regulation states restore predictability by avoidingconstant policy shifts that increase risk the Corporate Activity Tax.Oregon does offer various grants, While States without gross receipts taxes —or that rely primarily on profit-based tax, regulate, and fee its way intoprosperity. Growth must precede
reinvesting every dollar to grow or simply stay afloat.employers, the CAT: Raises effective tax burdens arbitrarily — For many small receipts structure taxes revenue insteadof profit, which disproportionately harms would reverse or at minimum stabilize.Second, we would see meaningful for employers. Without legislativeaction, meaningful change is incentives, and workforce programs,most small businesses either do not corporate income taxes — create afairer structure for low-margin revenue.considerations: A few additional 1. Stop Treating
businesses with high revenues but low profits still pay the same rate.Creates cash-flow stress — taxes are due on revenue before profit has low-margin industries like food service,retail, construction, and manufacturing. reform of the Corporate Activity Tax,reflected in lower effective tax burdens impossible.Governor must set a clear economic 2. Governor’s Office The qualify, cannot navigate the complexity,or find that the benefit is marginal businesses. Idaho and Utah, inparticular, have maintained competitive Business as a Revenue Source FirstWhen every budget shortfall triggers
been realized.spike, making growth financially riskier. Discourages expansion — as revenue scales, tax bills Undermines competitiveness — Specific changes should include:Raising the exemption threshold on small and mid-sized businesses.That should translate into stronger cash growth agenda that prioritizes private-sector expansion. That includes compared to the broader cost burden.Targeted incentives do not compensate income tax rates while keepingregulatory frameworks predictable. discussion of eliminating “tax breaks”or expanding taxes like the Corporate
small Oregon businesses are taxed more heavily than competitors instates without gross receipts taxes. The result is a structural disincentive significantly so true small businessesare not captured. Converting the CAT flow, increased reinvestment, andexpanded payrolls. Third, Oregon directing agencies to streamlinepermitting timelines, reduce duplicative for systemic friction.working and should continue, it would If anything is Oregon should eliminate orfundamentally reform the Corporate Activity Tax, it signals instability.Businesses make long-term decisions.
for growth, hiring, and capital investment. Addressing the CAT’s design —including exemptions, thresholds, or shifting to profitability-based taxation to a profit-based tax rather than a grossreceipts tax. Allowing full deduction of would move up in national businessclimate rankings — particularly in tax oversight, and treat employers aspartners rather than compliance be:through community colleges that align Workforce training partnerships Activity Tax and return to taxingprofitability rather than revenue. 2. If policy shifts every session, capital willmove to states that offer predictability.
— should be a priority of the Prosperity Council’s recommendations.Reducing this friction point would meaningfully relieve the tax burden on labor and operating expenses.Providing automatic relief during competitiveness and regulatorypredictability. Businesses considering targets.Departments responsible for revenue, 3. State Agencies directly with employer needs.Apprenticeship and trade programs that Texas-Style Regulatory Speed andPredictability Texas has built a 2. Compete Regionally, NotIdeologically Oregon competes with
small businesses and improve Oregon’s business climate. economic downturns.growth, it cannot penalize revenue. If Oregon wants 2. relocation would include Oregon in theirtop-tier options rather than excluding it labor, environmental regulation, andland use must simplify processes, help develop skilled labor pipelines.Small Business Development Centers reputation for fast-track permitting andclear development timelines. Idaho, Nevada, Texas, Arizona, andUtah for talent and investment. Those
Lower the Cost of Hiring Implement atemporary payroll tax credit for small outright due to cost structure.we would see job growth in the private Fourth, modernize systems, and commit totransparent, timely decision-making. (SBDCs) that provide technicalguidance to startups and Businesses know how long approvalswill take and can plan accordingly. states are actively lowering barriers toentry and reducing tax burdens. Oregon
businesses adding net new full-timeemployees. This encourages job sector, not just public sector expansion.That means: Increased full-time Administrative friction often hurts smallbusinesses as much as tax rates do. entrepreneurs.programs are secondary. The most However, these Oregon should adopt statutorypermitting timelines with automatic must evaluate itself relative tocompetitors, not in isolation. 3.
creation rather than punishing growth.Additionally, streamline workers’ employment.driven by private-sector competition. Higher average wages 4. Local Governments Cities andcounties must accelerate zoning helpful policy Oregon could continue —and expand — would be structural tax approvals if agencies fail to respondwithin a defined window. 3. Florida’s Measure Policy Impact on SmallBusiness Before Passing It Require an
compensation and regulatorycompliance processes to reduce Growth in manufacturing, foodproduction, technology, and locally approvals, reduce local business feeswhere possible, and align economic relief and regulatory predictability ratherthan selective incentive programs. For Targeted Relocation Incentives Floridaaggressively recruits employers independent small-business impactanalysis before enacting new taxes or
administrative overhead.“Relocate to Oregon” Business 3. Create a owned retail and hospitality.business owners would report Fifth, development strategies with jobcreation rather than additional taxation. many small business owners, the realissue is not the absence of programs. It through relocation grants, workforcetraining credits, and temporary tax regulations. If a proposal materiallyharms small employers, it should
Incentive Package To attract out-of-state businesses: Offer 3–5 year improved confidence in future planning.When operators are willing to sign long- Local permitting delays and systemdevelopment charges can stall growth is the presence of policies that makeoperating here unnecessarily expensive abatements tied directly to job creation.Oregon could implement 3–5 year tax require a higher legislative threshold.4. Focus on Cost of Living + Cost of
Karen Anderson 97396 Both Navarra Gardens aWedding Venue and Private NA Hospitality &Rentals 1 - 20 people Business climate Land use, taxes and lack of awareness of small business challenges,especially seasonal businesses income tax abatements for companiesPersonal & Business tax (county taxes)give grace to seasonal businesses! OR term leases, expand facilities, addOregon government will favorbusinesses that create revenue vs. just as much as state taxes.Legislature, local governments &training partners 5. and uncertain.SBA & training opportunities. We needmore grants to build & survive the True support for small abatements for companies that relocateBetter education of government officialsto understand needs of small No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Doing Business Together ProsperityIt took 3.5 years to get a permit to createa business. I would never of done it if I NA
Corporate Retreat tax - create a system to nurture newbusiness (not stomp it into the ground!) current system of favoring those thattake from revenue economic hardships currently in placefor small business! Internships business; Internships, grants, taxincentives, relaxed land use & permiting had known how hard planningdepartments are to work with. One of
programs (workforce) to pay up frontinstead of backend hiring concessions processes in economically challengedareas many reasons Oregon businesses areleaving the state in droves, taxing us to
oblivion being the main reason. Giveback to revenue generating
businesses, stop giving to nonproductive causes, support the hand
Chris Carney 97222 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I feel our greatest barrier is the radical left and right agendas that discount Take a more moderate or slower pace The state and local governments would All the above. State legislature need to We need to continue to find ways to I have only lived in Oregon, so my No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA that feeds you!I think the Prosperity Council should NA
the benefit of compromise, which limits growth. towards change. For instance thenatural gas industry has been stop using large fees to force theiragendas. As far as natural gas industry take a more modest approach tochanges that have large financial fund agencies such as ODOT and localtransit systems in away that is fair and knowledge of other states is limited. carefully consider how much it can costto give some large company tax gifts in
villainized by the far left. State and localpolicies are making it hard for increasing fees slowly as to not havelarge negative impacts on businesses impacts on businesses and families.Local governments need to do the equitable for everyone throughout thestate. I understand why someone in order to come to Oregon. Think ofAmazon trying to get cities to give them
businesses and families to affordheating and cooking. I am a climate and families. Create incentives forfossil fuel companies to lower their same thing. Mill City doesn't want to fund TriMet, butour metro areas have thousands of all these tax breaks to place their HQ2in their cities. Ask the question of what
change believer, but I suggest a slowermove away from fossil fuels. Clearly we carbon footprint in away that does not tryto drive them out of business tomorrow. workers and families who rely onaffordable transit to get to work and is the overall cost of that companycoming into a certain area? More
do not currently have the electricalinfrastructure to support affordable all absorb small financial increases overMost businesses and families can appointments. If our roads are so badthat people's vehicles get damaged people means more road maintenance,more infrastructure needs, higher rents
electric solution at this time. Creatinghuge taxes or fees on natural gas time. when they hit potholes, they will havetrouble getting to work and having and home prices, pushing workersfurther away from said business.
creates barriers for businesses, so whystay in a state that is creating financial money to pay their everyday bills. Wehave to remember the more money Ultimately I would love a business tocome into our state and say "we want to
barriers, when they can move to Idahoand get power from coal, which is much people have to spend, the morebusinesses they can help sustain. be good citizens of this state and payour fair share of taxes, because we
worse for the climate. know that makes our communitiesthrive, which helps our workers thrive
and with that our business thrives!!!"
Gus Meyer 97141 Organization/Business FACT: Fishermans AdvisoryCommittee. Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Workforce New (Re newed) Ocean Seafood (Shirmp) Fishery, Processing, Marketing,and Transportation System. Establishment of a devoted ShrimpEnterprise within Garabaldi, Oregon. Years back it supported such with 5Fishing Vessel's in Garibaldi. Local Governments, State AgencyDevelopment, Local Support Teams. ??? Still thinking. Tillamook County(Non-City) adopting STR (Short Term BRING BACK AND NEW INDUSTRYDEVELOPMENT. GET AHEAD OF NEW Yes Business climate Tools for GROWTH MULTIPLE LEVELS OF REGULATIONS. SHIFT DETAILED REGULATIONS TOLOCAL CONTROL. REGLATIONS SPECIFIC FORVARIABLITY(s) WITH EXPEDIITED FEDERAL AND STATE LEGISLATUREWITH LOCAL GOVERNMENT. REAL ID CARDS. FLORIDA HAS DEMONSTRATED FIRSTSTEPS ACCORDINGLY. STRONG No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Rental) Program. INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT CULTUREAND SOCIAL CULTURAL CHANGE. THROUGHPUT. LEADERSHIP DEVOPEMENT.
DISMISS THE PAST DECLINES ANDENERGENTERLY DEVELOPE
INDUSTRIAL, SOCIAL, ANDECONOMICS FOR THE FUTURES.
Suzanne Hanifin 97219 Both Acumen Executive Search Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The biggest problem of being a small business is the taxes along with thelack of support. The CAT tax needs to be eliminated,especially for small businesses. It does The State would award more smallbusinesses in their RFP process, Legislature needs to put action around"business first". They are saying it, but NA We need to raise the amount of almostall minimums such as inherited tax, Yes Workforce NA The priorities are misaligned with themajority of tax payers to what the State Small businesses need to be includedinto the conversation. We are the The cost to hire is not out of reach. Getrid of the CAT tax. We are not NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I think a real ""failure"" our State, local,and regional government does not NA
Services not make sense to tax an entire supplychain for the same end product, making especially certified businesses. Whichwould keep taxes in the State. Small when you look at what is going throughthe short session, it is much of the capital gains tax, death tax. We are notcompetitive to other States. is spending. For an example, as asmall business owner (employing 5 driving force of our economy. competitive. prioritize small Oregon businesses intheir RFP process. It always makes me
everything more expensive and lessaffordable. businesses would be get help via theState vs. calling and being treated same. Fees and the cost of doingbusiness have not changed or gotten people with livable wages) and ahomeowner (paying property tax) - I do mad when a survey (or any service) isgoing worked by an organization that is
poorly. less. It is still tax and spend. TheGovernor needs to add small business not feel represented! Our schools arefailing, our roads are poor, I don't see not from Oregon. That means our taxesare going out of this state and that one
to her council - not just the recognizedbusinesses. where my money is going but to others. little change, could mean a lot to asmall business.
Dwight Adkins 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Oregon feels like a spider web. We continue to add rules, regulations,hurdles, requirements, processes, fees, panels, and committees which in Reduce the influence of special interestgroups. Bring back common sense, Job growth, lower regulations to buildhousing, building an Oregon where It feels like government employees andelected officials' staff are no longer Oregon's polices around inclusion andchoice are strong. We can't have thriving communitieswithout jobs. Oregon needs to take lead No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop the finger pointing, overcomplicating everything and do better. NA
turn makes everything more difficult. What we believe to be helpful inactuality makes things harder. The Oregon spiderweb is suffocating discussion and compromise. Stop thepurity test, if we can agree on 60% of an everyone feels included. looking out for what is best for thecommunity and instead are focused on from states that understand thatbusinesses and doing business is not
business, families, job growth and quality of life. issue then implement what is possible,and stop striving for perfection. their own agenda. bad. Small companies as well as largecompanies are both critical to success.
Without a strong business communityeveryone suffers.
Richard Pine 97308 Both O'Neill Pine Company Private Forestry andWood Products NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Instead of being honored as employers businesses are too often seen asonly a tax revenue source. Seek revenue for public good from the broadest Stop new business only taxes. Use theindividual income tax with the broadest A greater connection between payingtaxes and producing public benefits. The legislature needs to show restraintand redirect the tax system. The public NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Councils are often formed to kill ideasand pacify the opposition. I hope your NA
possible range of taxpayers, not the narrowest. possible participation. Everyone wantsbenefits they don't have to pay for. Less free riders who don't pay taxes yetwant more public benefits. A greater needs to change the basic reflex ofwanting to pay nothing and get as much Prosperity Council will be different.
feeling that we are all in this together.Greater respect for businesses who do public benefit as possible. The medianeeds to focus on businesses as
pay taxes and employ people in allsorts of jobs. Less government burden employers.
on employers.
Ted Ferry 97301 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes and Government Regs If the Federal Government wants toreduce taxes for businesses, why is the Reduce Taxes for Small Businesseswithout all the red tape. With Oregon If you truly want to drive small business,Governor has to drive the reduction I am not sure there is one. Fix ODOT torepair and expand roads. WOW... why are businesses flooding toFlorida and Texas? Just like our No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Big Business is great, but we mustmake a priority for the under 50 NA
State Legislator taking that away? Whatmessage do you think that sends Paid Leave and Oregon Saves,,, thestate should either just take over all requirement and start vetoing the dumbideas from the legislator. OR.... wait for Schools should be looking atMississippi... take a look at those two employee companies.at what is going on in Salem with all the 1 - Take a look
existing business that can move andthe message for any business that is healthcare, HR and PTO or get out ofthe way. Unionize the whole state or the DOOM LOOP that is predicted to hitPortland, Salem and Oregon. states and copy that. new warehouses... most of them willfocus on computer systems and out of
looking at Oregon. learn to understand how smallbusinesses and entrepreneurial state employees. We destroyed primefarm land to put up Million Sq Ft
businesses work. warehouse that will provide a limitednumber of jobs. 2 - We should ban the
State of Oregon from having any out ofstate employees and get people back
into the office. If your state employeesdon't want to live here, what does that
tell you. It may hurt us for a year butthink what it will clean up. If you don't
bring people back to all the offices... sellthe buildings cheap and collect taxes
on them. Create incentives to turn theminto housing or companies that need
the space. Yes, it will mess up themarket for a few years, but it is silly for
the state to retain these without gettingtax revenue.
Kevin Harding 97321 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Climate Protection Program (CPP) Eliminate or cancel the Executive Orderthat mandates the CPP and start from Success would look like the following:Pause or cancel the executive order The Governor can cancel the executiveorder immediately. No Sales Tax There is a housing shortage and itseems that many areas in Oregon do a Yes Business climate Oregon non honoring some ofthe tax write-offs in the Federal Would like to address the reason for notsupporting the OBBBA income tax write- Do not pass this bill, and allow thefederal exemptions and tax Net reduction in taxes on individualsand businesses through honoring the Legislature needs to vote no on this bill,Senate already voted yes to pass and No Sales Tax NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Almost everyone puts gas in theirvehicles. This is a major contributor to NA
the ground up with new legislation thatsupports cap and trade, not a cap and authorizing the CPP. Have the OregonLegislature pass a new law, that lot to minimize growth. I have seenefforts in Nevada, Idaho, and Utah that OBBBA offs. Not supporting the interest on newbusiness vehicles, as is supported at improvements to be allowed in Oregonas lined out in the OBBBA. OBBBA. the House needs to vote no. affordability as an Oregonian. Look toreduce the gas tax to reduce our
reduce effort. encourages business growth (does notlimit it), that does not impact financially encourage growth and investment.Their economies are thriving and the federal level, not being allowed towrite-off immediately investment in everyday costs to our wallets.
residential customers, that does notgive the money collected to 3rd party Oregon seems to be falling behind. capital assets with accelerateddepreciation, the State and Local Tax
Non-Profits that may or may not doprojects to help reduce emissions (SALT) of 40k deduction, vs. 10k. It isvery easy anymore to hit the 10k
(seems very ripe for fraud, abuse of the$ of the citizens and local businesses, deduction with the high prices ofproperty taxes. Enacting this change
minimal oversight by DEQ of these Non-Profit 3rd parties, may be used for will continue to make affordability anissue for the state residents.
political purposes)
Alicia Bermes 97005-1693 Organization/Business Beaverton Area Chamber ofCommerce Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Taxes keep going up and our small businesses cannot afford this. Adjusting the CAT tax for inflation - $1million is hitting way too many small An environment that is welcoming tobusinesses. Legislature. NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Our businesses in Beaverton want tobe both socially responsible and make NA
Services businesses. a profit. These two things should not beseen as mutually exclusive.
Tom Engel 97008 Organization/Business Vantage Point HR Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Administrative weight of being an employer - complying with rules, newlaws, regulations and reporting. Define specific scenarios: opening abusiness in Oregon, applying for a A 30-50% reduction in correspondingmeasures against the baseline of the The Governor's office and thedepartments they manage. PCC has personally been very valuableto me in professional growth over the Again - don't know. This assumes thatwe are policy wonks who understand No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Instead of looking for specific ideas to"fix" the business environment - which NA
Services permit, applying for a license, gettingassistance from the State in measured factors years.know...and that's the problem with your Beyond that, I don't really what other States are doing.question is - why are some States The better has resulted from a multitude of priordecisions, we should be asking: "Why
accomplishing X - how long until youwere able to talk with someone vs how question. It assumes that regularbusiness owners fully understand the economically more successful inhousing starts, job growth, new would someone want to start and keepa business in Oregon vs another State?
long to resolve the matter. Then mysteryshop those scenarios with volunteers big picture structure of governmentpolicies and programs. We don't. That businesses opening etc vs Oregon.They're not smarter than us. So what giveaways....and many businesses canIt's not all about tax breaks and
or temporary staff - who do not haveknowledge of those processes - and should tell you how complex theenvironment looks to us. structural differences exist? work from anywhere and not a fixedlocation. So why Oregon? That's the
see how long they take. question that is lacking candiddiscussion.
James Hepler 97301 Both Azimuth Surveying Private Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Workforce Poorly prepared employees and land surveying licensees split geomatics from boundary surveying Can't happen that soon. The damage isdone. Legislature and education partners Not aware of any This is a nationwide problem that is tiedto the the current philosophy of Yes Business climate NA Taxation has all but removed anyincentive to remain in private business. Dump the tax takers; make them getjobs or starve. Fix infrastructure that supportsbusiness and forget about the Legislature, local government, andeducation. There isn't much to be optimistic aboutin Oregon. If I weren't so old, I would Get government out of the way, lowertaxes, protect the rural way of life. Yes Tools for growth Affordable housing and progressivepolicies Get state and local government out ofthe way. Planning and engineering Start to finish times on development likeit was in the the late 90's Legislature and local government. Middle Housing was a good idea thatisn't working worth a darn. Idaho County, Idaho has it about right. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services pragmatism that denies objective truth.Such denial is incompatible with stable If there is only support for tax takers andno support tax payers, how's that going homeless or buy them a ticket forCalifornia. Support rural folks instead move. review has become a major stall point.So, maybe just let private engineers do Burdensome conditions of approval arestill stalling the process of quickly
property boundaries. to work out? of attacking them. their jobs and suffer the consequencesif they get it wrong. getting affordable housing in place.And, really, who wants to live in an
apartment by another name?
BARBARA FLEMING 97701 Both CLS Fabrication, Inc. Private Metals andMachinery Wemanufacture 21-100 people Business climate The massive increase in business taxes in the last 5 years. The partial disconnect strategy inSB1507 will be a major shift which will Concentration and prioritization on realchanges that benefit business. Not the legislature for the most part. EDCO hasa real issue as well. We have utilized NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
metalcabinets effectively increase the state tax burdenfor a company like ours that is capital- constant increases at every turn. the Enterprise Zone exemptions andare potentially being penalized for a
amd ship allover the USA intensive. Our personal property tax billsevery year are out of control. Every big small decrease in employees. Big,new, automated, $1Million equipment
machine, aside from costing $1Million+, now costs us $15K per year in modernizes our processes and bringmore sales and revenue to the State.
personal property tax. We have multiplemachines in that category. The The process needs to be modernizedand updated to reward companies
business environment in Oregon isbecoming very challenging. We longer bringing more sales to the State ofOregon, not punishing them. Makes
feel that Oregon is a business-friendlystate. moving out of State very attractive at thispoint.
Tim Elder 97520 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon is still trying to fill the holes left from the decline in the resourceextraction economy. Reduced timber harvest, over fishing, mineral Shift the focus from resource extractioneconomy to a restoration economy. Success would look like... The creationof a labor force and funding stream that Everyone. The legislature needs tofiscally support these investments. The Private Forest Accords are a greatexample of how a funding stream could NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Climate change is real. We are seeingthe effects negative throughout Oregon. NA
extraction generally only benefits a few and causes harm to many (tragedyof the commons). Invest in wildfire fuels reduction,protecting and enhancing clean water supports restoration and greeninfrastructure. Jobs that focus on Local governments need to look at theresources they have and what would be support the restoration economy. Alsothe historic Civil Conservation Corp. It is past time to reimagine how Oregonwill move into the future and it is not
sources, build solar farms, restorenative streamside vegetation, build bike protecting and enhancing cool watersources for fish and drinking water, needed. Employers should offereducation and training opportunities... Policies that make it easier to performriver and floodplain restoration. Also, through resource extraction. There areclear and simple ways that we can
trails in state forests (while removingroads), etc. There is so much good, streamside vegetation enhancement,habitat restoration, solar farms, etc. The simply enforcing current ODA lawsregarding streamside vegetation address the effects of climate change,while at the same time helping people
restorative work that could be done inOregon. Private Forest Accords are a greatexample of how a funding stream could requirements would drastically helpimprove water quality. find work, pay living wages, restoringour environment, protecting essential
support this. ecosystem services (i.e., clean coldwater, healthy salmon runs, etc.) and
investing in sustainable infrastructure.
Nick Williams 97304 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The overarching theme is the public sectors disdain for the private sector inOregon. There's an adversarial relationship that has developed as State I would encourage the adoption of anoutcomes based performance standard Lowered anxiety within the businesscommunity. Renewed vigor around This is an all hands on deckemergency. Action is required by the Business Oregon and local economicdevelopment offices. Oregon needs to study states whereeconomies are thriving. Arizona, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA As a commercial real estateprofessional, much of my time is being NA
and local policies have compounded over the decades. Additionally, thoseemployed by government agencies aren't empowered to make decisions - for public employees that incentivizesmoving a project forward and development and growth of business.News of companies moving IN to State, local governments, communitycolleges and public education. Tennessee, Florida are at the top of thatlist. spent helping Oregonians move theircapital out of the state. Taxation and an
so simple tasks take far too long, frustrating those in business to the pointthat they're seeking other states to do business in. acknowledges and quickly fixesbottlenecks. Our public sector partners Oregon, and no news of companiesmoving OUT of Oregon. egregious regulatory environment areprincipal reasons why. Our economic
need to adopt a renewed vigor forcustomer service, and move away from ship is sinking, and we need to actincredibly fast. The longer we admire
obstructionism. the problem, the worse off our state willbe.
Don McBride 97303 Both SMI Real Estate & PropertyManagement Private Business andProfessional Real Estate& Property 21-100 people Business climate Excessive regulation on property owners rights. Let the market decide howmuch rent should be increased, not the government. Due to excess Remove rent control regulations andallow the free market to determine rents. More affordable rents for everyonebased on competition and a stronger Legislature through the Real EstateAgency. I can't think of one thing the state doesto help property owners. No rent control No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Less governmental interference equalsa more prosperous business climate NA
Services Management inventory the market has had to reduce rents over the last few monthswhich affects the property's total value. With rent control as the market tax base due to stabilized propertyvalues. which allows for more charitablecontributions and a viable tax base.
rebounds property owners will not be allowed to catch up and propertyvalues will be negatively impacted. Lower property values result in a lower
tax base.
Tim Bergler 97202 Both Percipio Consulting Group,inc. Private Business andProfessional NA 21-100 people Business climate Taxes for small business owners and regulations/protections that make itdifficult to do business. There are numerous examples where law makers Stop increasing taxes on business andbusiness owners. Unwind PSA and Portland is clean. We dont have tents inour streets and in open spaces. Our Our governor and state legislatureneeds to send a clear message to our very little. I cant even think of one thingthat this state does to help my business. Texas provides tax credits for jobcreation. North Carolina provides tax No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The state has to let the country know werecognize the value of business and NA
Services did not consult tax payers or business owners when adding new specialpurpose taxes. Examples include - CAT tax, PSA tax, SHS tax. And most make it a needs-based state-levelservice. Clean up Portland - garbage state sends a clear message that itsupports businesses and small local governments that they cant keepsqueezing a very small percentage of credits for job creation and specificindustry investments. Lower personal business owners. That means you donttax them at every opportunity and you
recently the example is SB 1507 which eliminates recent advantages ofFederal taxes. Why would anyone locate a business here and take the risk and tents and return it to one of themost livable cities. Need to match business owners by eliminating one-offincome taxes like PSA, SHS, PCEF high earners. income taxes and eliminate punitivetaxes on high earners. actually incentivize them for creatingjobs. Things like SB1507 send the
to grow a business here when you pay considerably more taxes than otherstates? Oregon is one of the least attractive places to start and grow a taxes with livability. You cant have hightaxes and low livability. We need a exact opposite message. The governorclearly isnt listening if she signs this bill.
business. There is no inherent advantage other than the natural beauty -and there are a lot of beautiful places in the world. Our schools are sub-par. more fare tax code - which means asales tax that all residents participate in
Our public safety is below average and now Portland is filled withhomelessness and garbage. You cant overtax relative to other states and and a corresponding decrease inincome taxes. We want high services
then match that with poor livability. Oregon still has not learned its lesson -as is evident by SB1507. but we dont expect all residents tocontribute to our tax base. Encourage
development by decreasing obscurerenter protections and inclusionary
zoning.
Brock Nation 97070 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth a b c d e f No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
TRACI RAY 97204 Organization/Business BARRAN LIEBMAN LLP Private Business andProfessional Law Firm 21-100 people Business climate Business friendliness, excess of taxes, inadequate support for downtownbusinesses Lower taxes, incentivize restaurants andsmall businesses to take up empty Fewer empty offices, more downtownfoot traffic, vibrant city, businesses City and County N/A Austin, TX No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Thank you for your work on this, wewelcome change in Portland. NA
Services storefronts, safety, police presence,cleanliness moving back to Multnomah County
Daniel Birch 97223 Both The WaitStaff Team Inc Private Business andProfessional Staffing &event rentals 21-100 people Business climate Too many "event based" businesses in Oregon operate with "independentcontractors" that are miss-classified and it creates huge issues with real Audits for all companies (other thanconstruction, or other specific The vast majority of companies areactually abiding by the law??? All of the above, pass a bill asking forvoters to agree that companies are NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Services companies that are abiding by the law and employing staff yet payinghigher amounts with less profits due to the other companies in the area industries, as that is normal procedure)reporting over $5,000 to $10,000 of subject to an audit on their taxes with areported amount of more than $xxxxx
"contracting" staff at lower rates and taking larger profits on lower price perservice. "Contract Labor". reported for independent contract labor
Melissa Pollman 97317 Both ConKraft Construction andStorage 4 Less Private Business andProfessional Constructionand storage 1 - 20 people Business climate Over taxation and regulation. The high taxes and regulations in OR are notbusiness friendly. The recent break from federal tax codes is a great Tax codes should follow federal taxcodes. CAT should be removed - Lower taxes so people have more to putback into local economies. Reprioritize Legislation PTE - pass through tax exemption. States with lower effective tax rates No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We need a better balance of democratsand republicans in office. With a 2/3 NA
Services facility example of OR attitude towards business. The state is trying to fund thegovt on the backs of local businesses. This is a failed tactic. businesses should not pay tax ongross receipts. budgets to focus on essential functionsof specific govt departments. majority, legislation previously voteddown by popular vote has been pushed
through. CAT tax is a perfectexample.The state government is not
representing its voters very well whenthey push through unwanted policies.
Zoe becker 97338 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Oregon businesses struggle with high costs and too many complicatedregulations. The biggest barrier is slow permits, high taxes, and unclear Simplify regulations, speed up thepermit process, and review taxes to More new businesses opening, morejob opportunities, and companies The state legislature, localgovernments, and state agencies need Workforce training programs, smallbusiness support programs, and States that have faster permit systems,lower business taxes, and strong No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon should focus on making iteasier for small businesses to NA
rules that make it hard to start or grow a business. make sure they are competitive withother states. choosing to stay and grow in Oregoninstead of leaving. to work together with businesses andeducation partners. incentives that help businesses expandand hire workers. partnerships between schools andemployers for job training. succeed, especially in rural areas.Lower costs, faster permits, and better
job training programs would helpbusinesses grow and create more
opportunities for people. The stateshould also listen to local business
owners when making new rules.
Scott Friedman 97304 Organization/Business GT Landscape Solutions Public Business andProfessional NA 101-500 people Business climate Tax and regulatory pressure always adding more cost without the ability toget higher prices. Business growth fuel economic growth.Embrace that and help grow business. Business are excited and growth in allsectors. Cost of living normalizes so Legislative priority. Enforce and punishcrime. cleanup the streets. Change in The state is inefficent in all things. Overall attitude change to pro businessand less about a focus to make Oregon No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA If people want to solve problems theycan. Meeting to discuss what is already NA
Services young people can afford to live. top end leadership. Focus on the basicfunctions of government now all the a place "you can be your true self." known seems like a shell game.everyone sat a table and hammered out If
other noise. Be prudent with tax dollarsand employ financial controls like a deal all sides could compromiseoutside of polictics things could
private companies have. change. But recommendation withapplied action will be meaningless.
Melissa Phillips 97302 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Taxes are too high for businesses and individuals. Regulations arechoking businesses. Less government involvement, lessinterference from the governor and Not having Tina Kotek as governor;instead having a governor who cares Independent and Conservative votershave to show up and oust Kotek and all Assistance for seniors and individualswith disabilities through programs like No property taxes, no income taxes -works well in other states! No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Oregon is becoming one of the highesttaxed states, businesses and NA
legislature going against the people'swishes, especially concerning tax more about the day-to-day lives andhealth of Oregonians, not just DEI and representatives who are on the ballot toshow them that they are not doing their NWSDS and county DDS programs. individuals are relocating to other lessexpensive places, and industries that
hikes. This is equal to taxation withoutrepresentation. The legislature and special interests. jobs. Then, the legislature and governorneed to work to reduce taxes and used to fuel the economy, like miningand timber, have been decimated by
governor are supposed to represent thepeople, not their own initiatives and legislation, thus reducing the load forbusinesses and individuals and freeing regulations, that have also successfullycreated kindling for forest fires every
special interests. up funds to go directly into business,industry, and tourism. summer. The failed policies of thecurrent legislature and governor will
continue this crisis until the economy ofOregon collapses and homelessness
will continue to increase. We need realreform in the form of fewer taxes at the
pump, lower taxes on homes, fewerand lower business taxes in order to
help Oregon truly become prosperous.You cannot tax a state into prosperity.
Josie koehne 97119 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Automation will reduce local jobs. Oregon tax breaks should not beassisting job elimination. Remove tax subsidies for any newinnovations that are designed to No increases in lost jobs, fewerunemployment claims. Legislation Enterprise zones should have shorterexemption periods so local Eliminate data centers from anysubsidies since they provide very few No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
reduce jobs. communities don’t lose property taxrevenue for schools and services and jobs and are not high paying jobs.
the GENERAL FUND won’t be requiredto fill in for education.
Blair Carlson 97140 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The amount of taxes in this state are prohibitive. The money is wasted at anastonishing rate. It's unbelievable. Accountability for politicians. If you can'tdevelop and meet a budget, you can't People coming to Oregon, not leaving it.Businesses thriving in Oregon, not Everyone, but ultimately, the buck stopswith the excuses for "leaders" we call None really. It seems like this state isbent on driving honest citizens and Use taxes and accountability onspending. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
be re-elected. struggling and leaving. politicians. businesses out. They'd rather hand outdrugs to homeless people and force
pointless DEI policies that don't meananything.
Bob Grover 97007 Both Pacific LandscapeManagement Private NA CommercialLandscape 500-1000 people Business climate NA 1. Stop trying to solve all problems bycreating new programs 2. Reduce A growing economy, employment andprivate developed affordable housing State legislature, county commission,and city council NA States like Georga, South Carolina,Texas, Ohio, North Carolina, and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
COntracting excessive governmental spending 3.Reduce land use regulations that make as compared with other states. Tennessee that excel in providingbusinesses with low taxes, business
it difficult and expensive to developcommercial and residential properties. growth incentives, and reducedregulations.
4. Eliminate CAT tax and replace withtrue sales tax
LAWRENCE ATKINSON 97304 Both Instruction Construction Non-profit Business andProfessional WorkforceDevelopmen 1 - 20 people Workforce Erratic funding model for nonprofits that do the critical work to move themost vulnerable part of our population Streamline funding Strong workforce development for allstudents interested in a non college Legislature, both state and federal As a small realistic new nonprofit, onlyestablished programs get funding, Integrated curriculum that connectshands on learning to that solves current No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Having training organizations, housingfor unsheltered, and state agencies NA
Services t track. regardless of their success rate housing needs cooperate to solve educational needsand housing at the same time,
Corky Collier 97218 Both Columbia Corridor Non-profit Metals and The entire 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Creating economic growth out of Oregon values for the environment. Rather 1. Brownfield redevelopment creates 1. Build on previous brownfield 1. A brownfield tax credit is the fastest, NA 1. Colorado and New York have very No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA especially for at risk youth.Improving our secondary education NA
Association Machinery industrialsector, than viewing economy and environment in opposition, prioritize systemsthat combine the two. usable land in urban areas while alsoremoving toxins. Previous studies show research in Portland and with Metro. Adozen good options are in reports. most impactful and most reliable step.It only needs state legislature action. 2. effective brownfield cleanup tax credits.2. Washington has very good support system is critical for retainingbusinesses--what boss or employee
includingmanufacturin that subsidies from the state would berecouped in less than ten years. After Primarily, remove permitting barriersand create a tax credit. Other states Industrial symbiosis is already movingforward in Boardman and Astoria. The for industrial symbiosis. wants their children to go to school inOregon?
g andtransportatio that, state revenue benefits indefinitely.2. Industrial symbiosis is profitable such as Colorado and New York havehad undeniable success. A brownfield obstacle is lack of long-term funding fora facilitator. Some matching funds
n. (and therefore sustainable) carbonreduction by improving our waste cleanup tax credit in two years would besuccess. 2. Business Oregon has would also be very helpful.
stream re-uses. Denmark's ten-yearresult is vastly greater carbon reduction studied industrial symbiosis and wouldbe an ideal lead agency. A big first step
and slightly better GDP than the U.S. is to hire a facilitator/organizer. Centerfor Sustainable Infrastructure and
Kalundborg Symbiosis are goodcandidates. Once hired, it's likely we
could have a half dozen symbiosisprojects across the state started within
2-3 years.
carol schirmer 97405 Both Schirmer Consulting, LLC Private NA landscapearchitecture 1 - 20 people Business climate While legislation has been supportive of housing, no matter what the policy,if it doesn't result in staff support of the greater goals, then housing I really wish I knew. It starts from the topdown and at the same time if a staff Standards by which to measurehousing units produced, starting at Management at the city. I have seen itwork at other cities. Changes to the land use code. Thishas produced more housing units than NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
and landuse planning applications get stalled at the front counter on on a staff person's desk. person refuses to perform or is unableto perform to a measured standard that permit issuance all the way tooccupancy. You would be surprised, or all my years working to create buildinglots in the south hills of Eugene. I would
job is protected by membership in theunion. maybe not, how often great policydirection can be thwarted by review staff. like to see mandated review time linesfor building permits. Not just review
time line goals. Those are aspirationalat best. There are no incentives for staff
to approve or deny applications. Oncethey are in the system it just takes what
it takes. This type of hands off approachto production results in lost money for
developers in holding costs on theirloans, increasing the cost of
housing/rent.
Patricia Granum 97062 Both Co-Operations, Inc. Private NA Logistics 1 - 20 people Business climate Logistics is an extremely competitive business. For customers to bringproduct into the state and store/ship these products - rates must be Since profits pass from most smallbusinesses to individual tax returns; My business remaining in Oregon. Wedon't need to be in OR to provide our Reduce the high cost of governmentwhich forces pass thru taxes like CAT to zero Accountability. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please do something constructive withresults. I personnally think AI should be NA
competitive. The increasing cost of business (property tax, CAT, payroll(SAIF) costs make this nearly impossible. lower the rates profit pass through fromSCorps. These monies provide the services. be passed to raise $$ to fundgovernment. SAIF is out of control in embraced in every agency. The privatesector is doing it to control costs.
working capital to run businesses. cost of administration andcorresponding cost to employers. Imagine if the the first pass through ofany building plan were to be reviewed
by AI. (its not perfect ) BUT it couldprobably flag a large % of problems in
the plan quickly. I expect so many otheragencies could benefit from including AI.
Amanda Warren 97338 Organization/Business Karma Coffee Bar & Bakery Private Food andBeverage NA 1 - 20 people Business climate Cost/ Taxation. When running a small business profit margins are razorthin since you already don't get to tap into the buying power of your larger -With shift workers, a better supportfrom sick leave oregon, so we aren't The ability to keep prices low, allowingmore customer traffic. This leading to a State government needs to take noticeof all of the big businesses leaving Paid Leave was really good for ourfamily, and if handled well I think could Wyoming/South Dakota/Florida- nocorporate/ personal income tax- No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
competitors.bank incredibly cumbersome since with shift work we pay not only the sick This makes things like paid sick leave coming out of our pulling it out of our personal banks 2xfor each employee that calls out -Stop well bonused staff with higher wages &no taxation on their tips for more years Oregon, and all of the small onesshutting down. Keeping these help a lot of families with new childrentransition with better connections- allowing businesses to grow & moremoney to be out back into the economy
employee, but also the replacement for the shift. When employees arearound for years we are unable to afford raises since we are instead raising minimum wage so businessescan give raises to the workers who worked- leading to better overallretention. Keeping sick leave so they businesses adds to your tax base, andkeeps people living/ working in Oregon. hopefully extending into better mentalhealth/ support systems later in life.
raising every person on our floor each year which does nothing since thepoverty line just raises when cost of all other things just raise with it. This actually deserve it, not the ones intraining, -No taxation on tips so my can pay their rent, but a tax deduction forall sick leave/ replacement workers
also makes the cost of our product go up which then prices us out of someof our customers' ability for extra spending. workers can keep the money they make-ultimately putting it back into the paid.
economy,
Richard Duncan 97302 Both Rich Duncan ConstructionInc Private Business andProfessional NA 21-100 people Tools for growth Attracting talent lower taxes, improve K12 education,clean up the street to be safe and clean we become a competitive state forrelocating talent and gain employment Legislature, local governments Business Oregon, Travel Oregon,SEDCOR Lowering Taxes and regulations,creating a open for business attitude. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA we need less government less council,let business thrive NA
Services As businesses prosper so does taxrevenue
