more. Smaller or start-up tech firms are competing with established behemoths for the same
4
workers. As one Oregon technology startup CEO told a legislative study group
“I am here today advocating on behalf of my employees. I am competing with companies
like Google and cities all over the world to retain my highly skilled workforce. A big factor
in our favor is the perceived quality of life here in Oregon. Yet when they have children
they encounter an underfunded school system combined with a reluctance to consider
anything beyond spending cuts to solve the myriad problems. It’s not as if I don’t pay
them enough so that they couldn't send their kids to private school. But they do not want
to send their kids to private schools. They want to live in a community which adequately
invests in education and other critical services.
And that’s not what’s been happening. In response I've lost staff to places like London,
Austin, Berlin and Helsinki, drawn by a higher quality of life, which public education is a
big part of.
* * * *
If you want to foster a vibrant tech industry in this state and the well paid jobs that come
with it then you will have to make the necessary investments, starting with an
appropriately funded education system.”
Business recruiters say workforce is the number one location factor. The most important
strategies for economic success focus on education and building a quality of life that retains and
attracts talented workers.
High-skilled workers and highly productive, high-wage firms are gravitating towards places with
a great quality of life and excellent public services, especially education. And, all levels of
education are critical, preschool through higher education. This is the path Oregon needs to
invest in – not just write this into business strategy documents and the law – but to actually
invest more resources in education. This type of investment does not show immediate
improvements but it creates a lasting foundation with solid economic outcomes.
Childcare and preschool
Although it is not always included in conversations about education and workforce, access to
high-quality childcare is integral both to child development and to parents staying-in or
returning-to the workforce. In Oregon, there is an estimated 35% gap in available childcare
versus the potential need. And, the average annual cost is between $15,000 and $19,000 per
year for one child. Without investment in this system, low and moderate wage earners can be
priced out of the workforce.
Preschool for All prepares children for kindergarten by increasing their confidence and
preparation. It reduces family financial stress, supports special care for children with disabilities
and increases wages for preschool educators. There is a lot of evidence that universal Pre-K
has huge economic paybacks, especially for disadvantaged families. This is an economic
strategy that benefits children, parents, schools, and the community.
4
Joint Committee On Tax Reform, Mat Ellis, Cloudability, memo dated Tuesday, June 13, 2017,
available at
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qA5eKOCUuSBBYUOH8QmeURDDCDrNC37I/view?usp=sharin
g
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 9 of 17
