was to begin milling the grains and producing high quality breads on-site. They also
wanted to be an educational site for youth and students to learn about on-farm and
processing practices. Plans were approved by the county and ultimately opposed by
the 1,000 Friends of Oregon.
a. The Problem/Opportunity: The biggest issue is how standing is established.
In this instance, the project “died on the vine” because the 1,000 Friends took
the issue to LUBA and for a nominal fee, they were able to put the business
owner in a position of spending tens of thousands of dollars to secure an
attorney to defend themselves. In Oregon, bread is not considered to be an
agricultural product, therefore it does not fit into rules associated with
farmstands, etc. As a point of comparison, jams, jellies and pies are
considered to be agricultural products.
3. The Company: A local hazelnut processor is exploring investment in a biomass
facility to help manage their waste stream.
a. The Problem/Opportunity: In order to move forward, they would need to
secure three separate air quality permits. That’s just to manage air related
environmental concerns. They also need to get permits related to land and
water impacts. There are so many separate state departments for permitting
these types of facilities and, though they do work to coordinate, it is a complex
process. An example of how this is managed differently – in Washington state,
they have the Department of Ecology, under which all the other environmental
departments sit (DEQ, State Lands, Forestry, Water Resources, etc.)
We would also like to share insight into a few seemingly “easy” ways to streamline or
simplify state programs for business. One example is the BOLI prevailing wage burden.
When a project is both funded at a state and federal level, the project is required to pay
both prevailing wage (state) and Davis Bacon (fed) wages, and track the hours and
activities by person, per project to ensure they are being paid the right amount, based on
which specific activity is being funded by which entity. This is big for the construction
industry who vastly prefers paying the higher of the two wages, versus the very onerous
task of tracking task by hour which contributes to a very high cost for administration and
reporting. If the state simply said “If the project is both federally and locally funded, defer to
the higher wage requirement” this would save huge amounts of time and cost. This simple
change could be a big time and cost saver for municipal infrastructure projects and
affordable housing projects.
Lois, this is already a very long email so I will stop here. Please let us know if we are hitting
the mark and/or whether we can be of support in any way. We sincerely appreciate your
participation in the Governor’s Prosperity Council – thank you for being a busy person who
committed to being even busier for the greater good.
Take care,
Abisha Romano
SEDCOR
503-507-4175
