funds to conduct planning projects, thereby hindering the efficiency of permit processing. More robust and
stable investments are needed to resource local governments to meaningfully plan.
Example: Oregon’s Coastal Management Program—powerful, effective, and under-resourced
15
Oregon’s Coastal Management Program (OCMP) illustrates the capacity challenge clearly. OCMP is a
federally approved program, housed within DLCD, that coordinates 11 state agencies and all coastal cities
and counties to balance development and conservation while supporting community livability and economic
activity. The program provides coastal planning assistance, hazard mitigation tools, data, grants, and federal
consistency review—services that are critical to timely, legally durable permitting in coastal communities
given planners are responsible for upholding distinct coastal Land Use Goals in addition to all other Land Use
16
Planning Goals.
In fall 2025, Pew partnered with DLCD/OCMP to cohost coastal resilience workshops in Pacific City and Coos
17
Bay. These workshops brought together planning, public works, and community development staff from
14 coastal cities and Tillamook, Lincoln, and Coos Counties. Participants consistently emphasized that:
• Coastal hazards and changing environmental conditions are increasing faster than local capacity to
plan for them.
• Proactive, community-led planning creates certainty for residents, businesses, conservation
interests, and developers alike.
• Despite admirable increases in DLCD capacity around housing, decades of disinvestment in local
planning capacity—combined with heavy reliance on strained and uncertain federal funding—have
left many coastal jurisdictions struggling to meet both hazard and land use obligations.
With additional capacity, OCMP could more proactively assist jurisdictions with plan updates, code
alignment, and preapplication clarity—reducing delays for developers, local governments, and state
agencies while maintaining Oregon’s coastal standards.
In the Council's final recommendations, please include a call to reinvest in state and local planning capacity,
including in specialized programs like OCMP. Strengthening planning capacity offers a pragmatic, durable
path for permitting while safeguarding the values that make Oregon competitive and resilient.
15
State of Oregon, Oregon Coastal Management Program, accessed 4/16/2026,
https://www.oregon.gov/lcd/ocmp/pages/index.aspx
16
Oregon's Statewide Land Use Planning Goals 16 (estuaries), 17 (coastal shorelands), and 18 (beaches and dunes),
Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development, https://www.oregon.gov/lcd/OP/Pages/Goals.aspx
17
The Pew Charitable Trusts, Oregon Coastal Communities Seek Solutions Amid Worsening Storms, Sea-Level Rise,
1/27/26, https://www.pew.org/en/research-and-analysis/articles/2026/01/27/oregon-coastal-communities-seek-
solutions-amid-worsening-storms-sea-level-rise
