Oregon is at a crossroads and the key takeaway from our comments is that unless a change
occurs in Oregon’s business climate through a number of policy choices, the state will not
achieve a predictable, manageable and competitive ability.
We are grateful for your time and attention to our comments below.
Oregon must align our labor standards, and overtime rules
with our neighboring states, or competitive states.
➢ The implementation of the Agricultural overtime law is having a negative effect
industry wide. Growers compete on a national level with states at the federal
minimum wage, further hampering market growth.
➢ Colorado recently changed its agricultural overtime law to recognize that the
industry has peak seasons that are driven by weather, product type, and labor
costs. Colorado changed its peak season to 56 hours a week.
➢ California, who phased in its Ag OT law (much like Oregon) is finding that workers
are making less with reductions of hours to the 40 hour threshold and productivity
of growers has been reduced.
➢ The OAN recognizes that a number of factors go into remaining competitive –
including regulatory costs, transportation costs to get product to market, and
labor.
➢ OAN is part of an agricultural coalition that recommends freezing agricultural
overtime to a 48 hour threshold and allow a 12-week 56 hour OT threshold for peak
season labor needs. This solution would go a long way to stabilizing employee
hours Oregon’s growing loss of market and competiveness.
➢ The Prosperity Council should also review and examine the total compensation
costs to Oregon agriculture by recognizing state mandated policies – minimum
wage, paid family leave, regulatory costs, etc.) to reconcile the true cost per hour
of an employee and compare it to other states.
➢ Ultimately the OAN supports OBI’s recommendation on overtime: Repeal
agricultural and manufacturing overtime laws, which place artificial constraints on
workers’ earning capacity and employers’ ability to meet production demand
fluctuations, particularly those tied to harvesting crops or other seasonally specific
demands
➢ The OAN recommends that the council work reduce barriers by state agencies and
collaborate with agricultural operations and their efforts applying for temporary
workers (H2A and H2B) to assist in an ever-increasing worker shortage in Oregon.
29751 SW TOWN CENTER LOOP, WEST, WILSONVILLE, OR 97070
2
