2 . TA X E S
chartered to develop principles for reform, evaluate trade-offs in reform scenarios, develop recommendations
for specific tax changes, and develop a pathway for implementing those changes though the Legislature
and voters.
This group should be chartered to create a more balanced tax system that reduces the state’s over-reliance on
income taxes to fund essential public services. Topics the group should consider include:
Reforming the Corporate Activity Tax as part of a comprehensive rebalancing.
Enabling local governments to increase funding stability with common sense property tax
regulations that sufficiently fund core programs without needing a complex array of local voter-approved
funding sources.
Rebalancing personal income tax structure to maintain progressivity and reduce effective rates for all
income brackets.
Supporting ongoing progressivity in the system through reforms that support low- and middle-income
households.
BEST PRACTICES
Indiana’s approach to comprehensive property tax reform offers useful lessons in how to develop durable,
system-wide change through bundled reforms and stakeholder alignment. In 2008, the state enacted a
bipartisan legislative package that paired property tax caps with shifts in state and local responsibilities, later
reinforced through a 2010 constitutional amendment.
Dissenting perspective: Nearly all Council members agreed with this section, however two members disagreed
with the need for many of the proposed tax changes and expressed concerns about the necessity of broader
business incentives and their long-term impacts to the state. They agree that Oregon must strengthen its long-
term competitiveness, but believe increasing investments in workforce and existing programs is more critical
than increasing investments in business tax expenditures. Additionally, while further fiscal analysis would occur
before implementation, these two Council members believe that the impacts of individual recommendations or their
combined effects should be better understood before recommendations advance.
- 20 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
