environmental changes and hazards, including extreme weather events. By proactively managing and
protecting these lands and waters for future conditions, state leaders can help ensure that people will
continue to enjoy and prosper from Oregon’s natural and working lands for decades to come.
Therefore, the state government and communities must prepare for a host of impacts, from longer and
more intense droughts and wildfire seasons and less predictable quantities—and quality—of freshwater to
more invasive species and diseases, changing wildlife migration patterns, and increased sea-level rise,
among others.
EO 25-26 also articulated work underway through the Plan for a Resilient Oregon, a "people-centered
resilience strategy to help communities around Oregon "adapt and thrive in the face of increasingly severe
26
climate risks, and to support communities in long-term recovery from climate-driven disasters." And a
separate executive order, EO 25-29, focuses on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and advancing Oregon's
27
clean energy future.
We encourage the Council, in its final recommendations, to align with the Governor’s recent climate-
focused executive orders. These orders contain policy pathways that, if taken together, can help create the
balance of conservation and development needed as Oregon plots a course for future prosperity.
4: Demonstrate engagement with the Oregon Department of Energy’s Natural Climate
Solutions program. The Council's final recommendations will benefit from this
connection as it may surface opportunities to enhance the state’s existing workforce on
natural and working lands.
Since 2023, launched in large part to implement Oregon House Bill 3409, the Oregon Department of Energy
(ODOE) has supported efforts to enhance or protect land-based net carbon sequestration on natural and
working lands across the state. This work includes publishing, in December 2025, Oregon's first Land-Based
28
Net Carbon Inventory which provides the state, decisionmakers, and the public a better understanding of
the effects of the state’s land use changes over the past 35 years on its greenhouse gas emissions and
removals.
And perhaps most relevant to the Council, in December 2025, ODOE also published a Natural Climate
29
Solutions Workforce Development and Training Programs Needs Study. In its publishing, ODOE provides
the following summary of the report findings:
26
State of Oregon, Governor Tina Kotek, Executive Order No. 25-26, October 21, 2025, page 6,
https://www.oregon.gov/gov/eo/eo-25-26.pdf
27
State of Oregon, Governor Tina Kotek, Executive Order No. 25-29, November 18, 2025,
https://www.oregon.gov/gov/eo/eo-25-29.pdf
28
Oregon Department of Energy and Oregon Climate Action Commission, Report to the Oregon Legislature: Land-Based
Net Carbon Inventory, December 31, 2025, https://www.oregon.gov/energy/energy-oregon/Documents/2025-Land-
Based-Net-Carbon-Inventory-Report.pdf
29
Oregon Department of Energy and Oregon Climate Action Commission, Report to the Oregon Legislature: Natural
Climate Solutions Workforce Development and Training Programs Needs Study, December 31, 2025
https://www.oregon.gov/energy/energy-oregon/Documents/2025-NCS-Workforce-Needs-Report.pdf
