Stephanie Hooper 90217 Organization/Business AGE+ Non-profit NA Aging 1 - 20 people Workforce Oregon needs a coordinated, cross-sector workforce strategy that can keeppace with demographic change, with a shrinking of the youth population A focused strategy to support existingstatewide, cross-sector workforce In short, success in 2–3 years lookslike Oregon having visible, measurable, •Governor’s Office and Legislature toset direction, fund workforce and •State Plan on Aging •The Oregon StatePlan on Alzheimer's Disease, Leverage any Multi-Sector Plans onAging best practice from 20+ states No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Leverage the Governor's Commissionon Senior Services to build the bridge AdvantAGE_LA_Report_Report_June2024.pdf
and growing cohort of older adults, especially in rural and frontier regions.This is not just a labor issue, it is the linchpin for housing stability, long programs with an aging lens. Thecouncil could support integrating older cross sector momentum toward an ageready and age-friendly economy. In housing initiatives, and authorize theMPA structure. •State agencies, Dementia, and Brain Health •Oregon'sEconomic Development Strategy where workforce is an area of focus. Forexample: Cross-sector wage and between workforce and older adults.
term care capacity, health outcomes, and economic vitality. Facts tosupport this: •HECC has been struggling to meet Educational Attainment adults into the recruitment strategy forworkforce pipelines, job incentives, and practical terms, this means aneconomy where older adults are including DAS, ODHS, OHA, OHCS,HECC, Business Oregon to align •HECC Workforce Strategies, includingFuture Ready Oregon (Prosperity retention strategies Originatingmodels: Colorado, Minnesota These
Goals for adults 40+, leaving a critical segment of the workforce withoutequitable access to upskilling pathways. •One in four Oregon jobs is training across aging services, healthcare, and housing as part of the empowered to choose to work forlonger and to up-skill/re-skill, and programs, budgets, and regulations tosupport pathways for older adults to 10,000) states link aging strategy to broaderworkforce retention efforts across
already held by workers 55+, meaning that without structural reforms thathelp to keep willing and able older adults in the workforce longer, workforce pillar of the Oregon economicdevelopment strategy. Intentional where space is provided forintergenerational workforce training. It is remain or return to the workforce.•Local community champions and human services, housing support roles,and community-based organizations.
retirements will accelerate shortages.share of older adults and the most severe workforce gaps. •Care, housing, •Rural counties have the highest amplification of the strengths-basedlens of an intergenerational workforce, an economy where older adults delivereconomic value by continue to workforce boards collaborate toimplement age-friendly workforce Workforce pipeline and career pathwaysystems Originating models: Utah,
and health systems workforce are already strained and cannot meetcurrent demand, let alone future growth. •Oregon’s economic growth is a unified strategy to bring olderprofessionals and younger contribute to the tax base longer, havethe ability to age in community with strategies on the ground. •Employersand health/care providers adopt age- Colorado, Massachusetts Thesestates integrate aging services into
directly threatened by slower population growth and insufficient laborsupply. This makes workforce a vital, crosscutting, prosperity-critical professionals together to co-shareskills, upskill, and otherwise solve for economic security, and support theoverall prosperity of our state by being friendly practices and job re-design.•Education and training partners to work sector-based workforce developmentstrategies, including partnerships with
challenge for the Prosperity Council and presents older adults as asolution to address this challenge. Biggest Barrier: The biggest friction workforce shortages. An effort such asthis could be housed under a Multi- active members of a generationallydiverse workforce. The more detailed together to build aligned, stackablecredentials and expand culturally community colleges and laboragencies to create career ladders in
point is the absence of an intentional, integrated, statewide workforcepipeline that connects older adults, employers, education partners, and Sector Plan for an age-friendly Oregon(MPA). An MPA is a coordinated, answer includes having made visible,measurable, progress on developing a specific and rural training pipelines.•Philanthropy and community caregiving, housing coordination, andcommunity services. Longevity
community systems. This omission is rooted in deeply ingrained systemicageism that renders older adults invisible as part of the solution, even as crosspublic, private, and community partners‑sector statewide plan that aligns workforce environment where:•Standardized, stackable career organizations to support pilots, fundinnovation, and ensure equity and economy and age-friendly employerinitiatives Originating models:
Oregon’s demographics shift such that there are now more residents 65+than youth under 18. to prepare for an aging population andcreate age‑friendly systems that pathways are in place across sectors,with community colleges and community voice. Colorado, Utah These plans frameolder adults as economic contributors
support people of all ages to thrive.Another value add could be providing employers using aligned certificationframeworks. •Rural and frontier and promote flexible work,entrepreneurship, and anti-age
additional resources to HECC tosupport their outreach efforts to the 40+ workforce incentives are deployed withmeasurable goals, higher recruitment, discrimination strategies acrossindustries.
cohort. lower vacancy rates, and reducedturnover in the hardest hit counties.
•Age inclusive and age friendlyemployment practices are adopted by
Celeste Margot Tell 97209 Both Epicycled Public Business and NA 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Innovation and attracting future-forward industries, including circular and State-level think tank to identify, assess major employers, with flexible workmodels and mentorship programsSeeding and supporting new sectors, All of the above. This needs to be a I don't know. I have recently relocated Both Washington and California are No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I am new to Oregon, but if we don't NA
ProfessionalServices regenerative economics - which requires thinking differently about thebasics of economics. and create infrastructure for leadingedge future innovation. new startups, new innovation withinexisting busisnesses, and relocation of coordinated, collaborative, cross-disciplinary effort with clear goals. from Washington and am a bit stunnedby the levels of dysfunction here. I'm still much more successful than Oregon.Why? Has anyone done an analysis? seize this moment, we're toast.
Kasten Spethmann 97230 Both Small Business Public Business and NA 101-500 people Business climate When legislature passed SB1507, it put many businesses and jobs in Please repeal SB 1507 existing businesses to Oregon.More tax breaks, reduced time and Legislature just watching, observing and digesting.The Oregon Prosperity Project seems Texas state legislature focused on No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Development Centers ofOregon ProfessionalServices jeapordy. The SBQS exclusion is a tax benefit that founders, share holders,and investors share. Taking this away will discourage investments into money to permitting, easier licensingprocesses, etc... to startups and their to be working on moving Oregon in theright direction to encourage new affordable housing, good education andreduced total tax burdens to encourage
Oregon startup and incourage businesses and investors to leave the stateentirely. shareholders and investors. business. companies to move to Texas, it was agreat success
Sam Holloway 97213 Both Multiple Private Food andBeverage NA 21-100 people Tools for growth Permitting within the city of Portland Remove roadblocks, unnecessarySDCs Letting small businesses get a permitwithout spending hundreds of Legislature. They make it really hard for founders NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
thousands on SDCs. Also, removingrecent legislation on QSBS. Please just
Stuart Ragnone 97030 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Remove all barriers to using petrochemicals! Remove the horrific federal and state follow the federal QSBSLower prices, higher growth, and more Governor & local pols can remove Veteran Program Expansion. Texas, Louisiana, Idaho, HAVE LOWER Yes Workforce NA The Council itself. Eliminate it. Less overhead, lower taxes, more Governor & Local pol’s. OR State Parks. Undo 4 night vs 8 night Idaho, Texas, Floridaare the most No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA There’s no need for a Prosperity NA
tax on fuel. Affordability. These barriers. TAXES!!! business. monthly benefit. Veteran friendly states. Oregon in thebottom 5 Council. Do the exact opposite of what’sbeen done!✅
Devan Fahsholz 97405 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Make fighting climate change beneficial to the economy Shift tax breaks from forestry/fossil fuelsto green technology Increased tax revenue, less reliance onfossil fuels EVERYONE Gas tax NA Yes Workforce NA Affordability End tax breaks for wealthy corporations,use increased tax revenues to help Oregon is a haven for working families EVERYONE NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You work for the people, notcorporations NA
Beth Fuller 97215 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce There are no jobs. I have 20 years in tech and to find work, I need to move. Offer retraining to other fields such as We won't be the dystopia we are Legislature, local government, training So far, there really isn't any help at all; Brooklyn has rooftop gardens, Detroit Yes NA NA NA support working familiesNA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA People are drowning AND they want to NA
You could do something radical and retrain tech workers to do climateresilient work. Also I had a startup and the city is terrible for tech startups climate resilient or green energy. I'm notsure what field is doing well, maybe trending towards. A reduction inhouselessness and people being able (like when timber failed), partners,investment into green energy AND it's just a free fall into homelessnessand debt. has community gardens, Belgiumincentivised city strip gardens, Australia implement solutions. Without supportfrom the government or privately it's
atm. healthcare too. Offer better incentivesfor companies to have business to keep their homes. Jobs that pay aliveable wage. A city that is more climate resilient programs. processes so much energy thatindividuals get reduced bills or $0 bills impossible. Right now you are forcingincredible stories or people who have
locations or employees in Oregon climate resilient and able to withstandthe drought, heavy rain, wind, and heat when there is excess, Valencia hasgoats that clear shrubbery in forests to wealth. Give the ideas a chance. Peopleneed jobs or you won't have a tax base
increases we are facing in the state.Ideally also a reduction in wild fires and prevent forest fires, I think any place thatinvests in the people and not focuses to cover whatever new scheme youhave in mind.
prevention of wild fires in the city (ForestPark) insurance companies will stop on capitalism as the outcome getscapitalistic, human, and environmental
trying to cancel home insurance.breathable air. Giving us jobs that make gains. This is one slice that I happen tocare about.
us climate resilient improves to muchfor the state and city.
J. SCHAEFER-JONES 97267 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce If businesses continue to lay people off, then there are more people whowould need assistance and less money circulating in the economy to At this point, there should be someextra support/assistance added to UBI for a subset of folks who needassistance/support, to locally prove the Legislature and local governmentsdivert funds to UBI. Employers Oregon’s Youth ExperiencingHomelessness Program funded by 18 states had UBI programs in 2025,for 57 programs in total, 12 in California No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
support more jobs and growth. those who are un- or under-employed,so that they can pay their bills and concept (it has been proven in otherlocales). Fewer children removed from willing/able to stop cutting staff in theshort term for the longer-term goal of Oregon's general fund and handled byPoint Source Youth should be alone. The models are there. Theproof is there. We've done it and proved
spend money on goods and services,improving business, and those underserved families. lifting all boats. continued and expanded it in Oregon. We can keep going andsave people AND the economy at the
businesses would need to hire morepeople to handle the work, contributing same time.
to more jobs and growth, andassistance can do more good in other
Gerik Kransky 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Oregon lacks meaningful supports for the business community to act on arenas.Work within the business community to New revenue mechanism is in place Legislature needs to identify the new Oregon DEQ’s Zero Emissions Colorado applies a small fee to e- No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Use direct incentives to compliment NA
environmental, public health, and climate. Relying entirely on regulationsfails to unlock the potential of business activity in support of public benefits. identify new state revenue sources witha nexus to freight, construction, and and tens of millions of dollars areflowing to business community for their revenue source(s) and State agenciesneed to provide the funding through Rebates for Oregon Fleets commerce delivery trips for zeroemissions rebates in order to clean up regulations in order to build strongerworking partnerships toward share
Oregon should identify sustainable revenue sources that can provide directfunding for Oregon businesses to invest in clean freight vehicles and business fleet operations that can funddirect grants, incentives, and rebates for purchase of clean fleets. existing programs for businesses topurchase clean fleets. the diesel emissions that occur inneighborhoods. goals.
equipment. 35% of climate pollution comes from the tailpipes of cars andtrucks and Oregon has no ongoing grants, incentives, or rebates to help the purchase of zero emissionsvehicles.
businesses thrive while reducing emissions.
NA 97062 Organization/Business Thermal ModificationTechnologies Private Metals andMachinery NA 21-100 people Business climate Oregon's Climate Protection Program (CPP). CPP exacerbates thechallenge of being regionally competitive by drastically increasing energy Immediately pause the implementationof CPP. In 2-3 years a plan is developed thatconvincingly demonstrates a win-win It seems that the executive order and/orDEQ rules would need to be addressed. Related to this specific topic (CPP), nohelpful-to-business programs or The effectiveness of their programs isTBD, but Washington and California's No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Thank you for your consideration of thismajor concern. NA
prices. The revenues generated by CPP are not required to be allocatedtoward/invested in projects that actually reduce greenhouse gas approach to climate protection andbusiness prosperity. policies come to mind. plans are at least considerably cheaper.
emissions. A likely outcome is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissionsby way of businesses closing, leaving, or consolidating operations outside
Stephanie Hooper 90217 Organization/Business AGE+ Non-profit NA Aging 1 - 20 people Workforce of Oregon.Oregon needs a coordinated, cross-sector workforce strategy that can keep A focused strategy to support existing In short, success in 2–3 years looks •Governor’s Office and Legislature to •State Plan on Aging •The Oregon State Leverage any Multi-Sector Plans on No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
pace with demographic change, with a shrinking of the youth populationand growing cohort of older adults, especially in rural and frontier regions. statewide, cross-sector workforceprograms with an aging lens. The like Oregon having visible, measurable,cross sector momentum toward an age set direction, fund workforce andhousing initiatives, and authorize the Plan on Alzheimer's Disease,Dementia, and Brain Health •Oregon's Aging best practice from 20+ stateswhere workforce is an area of focus. For
This is not just a labor issue, it is the linchpin for housing stability, longterm care capacity, health outcomes, and economic vitality. Facts to council could support integrating olderadults into the recruitment strategy for ready and age-friendly economy. Inpractical terms, this means an MPAincluding DAS, ODHS, OHA, OHCS, structure. •State agencies, Economic Development Strategy•HECC Workforce Strategies, including example:retention strategies Originating Cross-sector wage and
support this: •HECC has been struggling to meet Educational AttainmentGoals for adults 40+, leaving a critical segment of the workforce without workforce pipelines, job incentives, andtraining across aging services, health economy where older adults areempowered to choose to work for HECC, Business Oregon to alignprograms, budgets, and regulations to Future Ready Oregon (Prosperity10,000) models: Colorado, Minnesota Thesestates link aging strategy to broader
equitable access to upskilling pathways. •One in four Oregon jobs isalready held by workers 55+, meaning that without structural reforms that care, and housing as part of theworkforce pillar of the Oregon economic longer and to up-skill/re-skill, andwhere space is provided for support pathways for older adults toremain or return to the workforce. workforce retention efforts acrosshuman services, housing support roles,
help to keep willing and able older adults in the workforce longer,retirements will accelerate shortages. •Rural counties have the highest development strategy. Intentionalamplification of the strengths-based intergenerational workforce training. It isan economy where older adults deliver •Local community champions andworkforce boards collaborate to and community-based organizations.Workforce pipeline and career pathway
share of older adults and the most severe workforce gaps. •Care, housing,and health systems workforce are already strained and cannot meet lens of an intergenerational workforce,a unified strategy to bring older economic value by continue tocontribute to the tax base longer, have implement age-friendly workforcestrategies on the ground. •Employers systems Originating models: Utah,Colorado, Massachusetts These
current demand, let alone future growth. •Oregon’s economic growth isdirectly threatened by slower population growth and insufficient labor professionals and youngerprofessionals together to co-share the ability to age in community witheconomic security, and support the and health/care providers adopt age-friendly practices and job re-design. states integrate aging services intosector-based workforce development
supply. This makes workforce a vital, crosscutting, prosperity-criticalchallenge for the Prosperity Council and presents older adults as a skills, upskill, and otherwise solve forworkforce shortages. An effort such overall prosperity of our state by beingactive members of a generationally •Education and training partners to worktogether to build aligned, stackable strategies, including partnerships withcommunity colleges and labor
solution to address this challenge.point is the absence of an intentional, integrated, statewide workforce Biggest Barrier: The biggest friction as this could be housed under a Multi-Sector Plan for an age-friendly Oregon diverse workforce.answer includes having made visible, The more detailed credentials and expand culturallyspecific and rural training pipelines. agencies to create career ladders incaregiving, housing coordination, and
pipeline that connects older adults, employers, education partners, andcommunity systems. This omission is rooted in deeply ingrained systemic (MPA). An MPA is a coordinated,cross‑sector statewide plan that aligns measurable, progress on developing aworkforce environment where: •Philanthropy and communityorganizations to support pilots, fund community services.economy and age-friendly employer Longevity
ageism that renders older adults invisible as part of the solution, even asOregon’s demographics shift such that there are now more residents 65+ public, private, and community partnersto prepare for an aging population and •Standardized, stackable careerpathways are in place across sectors, innovation, and ensure equity andcommunity voice. initiatives Originating models:Colorado, Utah These plans frame
than youth under 18. create agesupport people of all ages to thrive.‑friendly systems that with community colleges andemployers using aligned certification older adults as economic contributorsand promote flexible work,
Another value add could be providingadditional resources to HECC to frameworks. •Rural and frontierworkforce incentives are deployed with entrepreneurship, and anti-agediscrimination strategies across
support their outreach efforts to the 40+cohort. measurable goals, higher recruitment,lower vacancy rates, and reduced industries.
turnover in the hardest hit counties.•Age inclusive and age friendly
employment practices are adopted bymajor employers, with flexible work
Zac Bakke 97306 Both IBEW 280 Non-profit Technology ElectricalConstruction 1000+ people Workforce Our works force is highly educated and licensed. The lack of enforcementof licensed electrical work is rampant and blatant. Its embarrassing! More budget to BCD. Stringent lawsregarding fines and punishment for models and mentorship programselectricians wearing their license in avisible way. Double the enforcement Legislation? Maybe educating thepublic? BOLI approved apprenticeship's.Continuing Ed requirements. We are a I am unsure at the moment. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It is difficult to-do business in Oregon.wage theft is everywhere. Especially on NA
customers that use unlicensedelectrician and heavy fines or jail time officers. Steeper fines andaccountability at the consumer level. licensed state when it comes toelectrical work. public projects / Davis Bacon. Gettingfrom permitting to reality is difficult. It
for practicing unlicensed work inOregon. Specifically ensuring the feels like government agencies arethere to hinder and not help. Don't
individual has a license AND they areworking with or under a electrical return phone calls. Process very slow.
contractor that hods a SigningSupervisors license. We give out
heavier fines for folks driving without adrivers license.
Maureen Burness 97214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Homelessness and the mess it creates on public streets More opportunities for the homeless tobe homed and a strong cleanup Clean streets; fewer - or no - homelesspeople on the streets Legislature, both state and city, but withpartnership of business NA where homelessness has beenreduced No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Rodney Wheeland 97032 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Impact of federal decisions on local and state economy campaignReduce reliance on federal agencies Oregonians for Oregon Discussion, education, thoughtful Focus on environment and climate NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Focus needs to be broad and on all NA
for funding decisioning at all levels contingencies, including business,labor, city and rural.
Janet Marie 97202 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Housing for workers has become to expensive follow New York in housing for all rents are down/more businesses thatare not focused on becoming legislature Anything that attempts at housingpeople new york No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Keep things local and simple/givecoops and small business all the NA
billionaires/corporations heldaccountable/tax the excessively rich and support and help they need to survive.
corporations not paying for ourinfrastructure by paying taxes fairly
Ali Hussain 97213 Both Beau Holding LLC Public Business andProfessional NA 1 - 20 people Business climate The tax code is causing my to divest and location for moving business outof Oregon. I already met with a firm to move my business over to Vermont Adding back the QBI deduction andexpanding tax benefit for new Keeping my company in Oregon andhaving those tax benefits legislature, local government Honestly, there are no program thatbenefits me and hence looking outside states with the QBI program, offeringrelocation packages and company stay Yes Tools for growth NA Oregon lacks the tools for growth I think, we need a system change in thelabor force creation creating the talent to hire local government and educationprograms None worthy enough to speak of adding lower cost college and skilltraining No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I think that changing the tax codewithout understanding impacts NA
R. Spada 97302-6110 Myself NA NA ServicesNA NA NA Workforce Job growth in an unregulated AI era. How can Oregonians continue to earn companiesRegulate tech companies, specifically A rigid set of job protections for I think this is a legislation issue of the state.I have found OHP to be helpful in the packagesWashington and California are doing No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA business and company are starting toleave.NA NA
a living whilst tech companies are unregulated and incentivized to operatewith as few human workers as possible? AI companies. Oregonian workers from AI and techcompanies. however I'm not a lawmaker so I don'tknow. Senator Sanders and Senator past and I look forward to it coveringmore folks. great work to protect their citizens fromAI, extreme wealth and an over intrusive
Warren have some good ideas, I'dreach out to them for guidance. Oh! And federal government.
I believe WA and CA are workingtowards legislation to protect their
citizens from AI/tech taking jobs.
Kevin Smith 97007 Both local govrenment Public NA localgovrenment 101-500 people Workforce regulations education better end products all of the above building codes don't know No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA ?? NA
William Lang 97146 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Climate-related investments that generate economic activity Score every legislative statute that haseconomic effect, using a climate-related Measurable effect on environmentalprojections related to natural resource Oregon State Legislature Reasonable but monitored applicationof strictures on private timberland Take a look at Montana for water. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The most important topic for the councilto address in Oregon's economy is NA
metric. economic activities in Oregon. logging. improvement of occupationaldevelopment aimed at the youngest
Matt Bell 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Schools have been chronically underfunded since Measure 5 in the early Pass revenue reform to fund schools at Better school staffing, better The state legislature, the Governor (who NOTHING. That's the problem. It's Washington has done a better job fully No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA groups in the labor pool.The Governor's advisors on K-12 NA
1990s. The state has gotten worse with this since the "fund by grant"system and underfunding the General Fund for K-12. The last budget did the QEM model. Add in accountability tomake sure that new funding is going to attendance, better test results, moreCTE offerings to get students ready. inaccurately claimed funding was"adequate" the last two cycles), local underfund and blame local schooldistricts. The funding squeeze means funding education based on class-action lawsuits against the state Education clearly don't know whatthey're doing. We're MUCH worse off
not keep up with inflation. Schools are getting squeezed with higher liabilityinsurance because of rising lawsuits, violence in the schools, workplace the classroom. Raise and fund theSpEd cap. Fully pay high-cost disability Safer classrooms as students with highneeds get more support. school districts, parents/guardians. spending time, money and energyrearranging deck chairs on the Titanic. legislature, being held in contempt ofcourt, and being held accountable. than we were in K-12 Education threeyears ago. Massive changes and
injuries, and other underfunding. (we were all short-changed this yearbecause money "ran out"). Follow Many southern states have focused ontruancy. Lake Oswego school district accountability at the state level must beput in place.
guidance around the PERSinvestments that are too heavily has made lots of efforts to educateparents on not allowing their students
weighted in Equities and did not keepup returns for Tier I people. Make to stay home because they're "anxious"because they didn't prepare for tests,
school districts pick from the approvedMath and Language Arts curriculums. etc. Not holding students accountableleads to more anxiety and avoidance as
Build in scaled up efforts on truancy sothat parents/guardians get either life long tactics.school districts with levies and strong Overall, other than
accountability or support. local management and stable studentpopulations, nearly all of our 197 school
districts is STRUGGLING. This is asign of underfunding. No one is doing
great at everything. If we wereadequately funding, at least one of the
197 school districts would be great ateverything.
Michele Peters 97210 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Clearing our streets of roaming addicts and those challenged with mentaldeficiences. Allowing the persons described aboveto be removed into institutionalized Clean streets where people feel safe.That will cause business to thrive. Legislature and local governments.Don't build shelters thinking that will I don't see them. I lived in Manhattan during the Dinkinsand Guiliani years. Guiliani initiated a No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
care; strengthening our police force withbetter training to remove the drug solve the problem. That is an endresult. Remove the source. legal crack down on the very issues wesuffer from here. It improved the quality
dealers off of our streets. Removingdrug access works to eliminate of life 100 fold.
dependency on remaining in areas.
Joshua Boren 97206 Both Beaverton School District Public Business andProfessional Education 500-1000 people Tools for growth More investment in education, including early education. More training innon-violent de-escalation strategies with police forces. More investment in Training in de-escalation strategies forpolice, body cameras and a citizen's Zero extra-judicial deaths, drasticallyreduced property crime. All children, if Governer, the business lobbies, bigcorporations like Nike, Republican Preschool for All. Wraparound Servicesin Washington County. Programs that Mississippi has a comprehensiveeducation system that has seen gains No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Investing in the everyday people ofPortland is critical. Businesses are NA
Services mental health and job training and other supports for homeless in additionto building housing and affordable housing. More options for care to review board of footage. Use of bodycam footage for training purposes with their families choose, enrolled inpreschool without cost barrier. Reduced legislators, school systems are working with police to help peoplein crisis and an alternative to arrest or in literacy. important, but they have powerfullobbies. We all need to do our fair share
support the criminal and judicial system if people are also suffering fromcrisis or mental health needs. the aim to eliminate extra-judicialdeaths. Free preschool for all for the homelessness and increased jobtraining programs. jail time. in our communities and corporationslike Nike have too much power to shape
state. More comprehensive EarlyChildhood Special Education. Job our government. Phill Knight should notbe able to spend massive amounts of
training and mental health support forpeople suffering from homelessness. money to prop up a politician.need ranked choice voting and vote by We
More outreach and information to thepublic about why people are homeless. mail! Lets keep them and expand them.
Differentiating people who have abarrier and people who are not taking
advantage of supports.
Katie Riley 97124 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate If you do not have afterschool care for children, you do not have a fullyavailable and strong workforce. Provide childcare and afterschool andsummer care for every child who wants Every child who wants it would havecare/support during non-school hours. Legislature with support and possiblesubsidization from local governments Licensing of care facilities; however,they need to be expanded to include New Mexico has full care for 0-17 and ithas made an economic difference to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Have broader input. Caring%20For%20Our%20Children%20-%20LWVOR%20-%202023.pdf
it. Provide it on a sliding scale. Businesses would be able to hireemployees who are qualified and and employers. broader definitions; e.g., care to age 13,no exempt licensing, afterschool care the state.
Meg Turner 97055 Both TURNER LEGACY CAPITAL, Private Business and Real Estate 1 - 20 people Workforce Immigration status that keeps qualified educated workers from ability to Workforce preparation that allows them dedicated.A smooth pathway to meaningful Education/training for US employment, for preK.Workforce programs and Career There is some movement in this Yes Tools for growth NA More support from the state site for Having an onboarding mentor would be Smooth transition to workplace with Local governments, employers, and We currently have the Small Business Small Business Development Center No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Keeping immigrants in the workforce NA
LLC ProfessionalServices Investments find related work in their field of training. to enter the field that they have trained in. employment for immigrants who havethe training in specific industries (e.g. as well as legislature with employers toencourage them to look for workers in Pathways programs at the communitycollege level. direction with Workforce, but morewould be helpful and open up avenues Small businesses. really helpful. access to grants and funding that wouldhelp with businesses starting in the education/training partners. Development Center, however, there isa limited amount of mentorship has a lot of programs but they havelimited facetime and need more agency requires a smooth pathway tocitizenship. This is still lacking in our
healthcare, technology, etc) to transitionto work in the US. the immigrant sector. of meaningful work that immigrantsalready have the training for. area. available. So more availability wouldhelp this continue to grow. and availability. state.
Chip Hall 97130 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Inequity of wealth across all Oregonians Tax the Rich Greater income equity across the board Taxing agencies Oregon Health Plan Most European countries Yes Workforce NA Cost of education, child care andhealthcare Medicare for All Free communitycollege tuition Free child care Realizing the three points above andmore Tax the Rich OHP Mayor Mondami’s plan for NYC.Successful programs in sister states, No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prosperity must be felt by allOregonians. The Homeless, Single NA
California and Washington Stste Mothers, Immigrants, Elderly, Disabled,Impoverished, People of Color,
Susan Conner 97703 Both Sunnyside Sports Private Outdoor Gear andApparel NA 21-100 people Tools for growth Employee housing and quality of life. Too much large home constructionand not enough attractive lower-income options Include requirements and/or incentivesfor construction of smaller dwellings, Employers such as myself to be able toretain staff. Long commutes and Local and state governments will needto subsidize projects so that they pencil Strong support of local parks and openspace is a huge incentive for my Comprehensive transit systems, urbantiny home communities No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Environmental and social concerns arebusiness concerns. There is no NA
and facilitate urban transportationoptions allowing for workers to be less unattainable local housing options area huge factor in our employee turnover. for developers. employees to live here, and forcustomers to shop at my store. separation.
Joy Miller 97219 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Recognizing the need for life long learning and recareering for one. the car-dependentEncouraging universities to focus on A reduction in age discrimination and education, legislation, oregon business NA NA Yes Business climate NA Oregon from the state to local levels NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
other issue is recognizing using the value of workers 55 and older certificates do people hold g abachelors degree so people can more short term options to recareer council need to keep adding in fees and taxes.Multnomah Ciunty and Portland are
update job skills in a year or less.educate employers ain the value of stalled due to the high taxes.
older workers. encourage employers tohelp pay for job retraining.
Paul Radway 97206 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate Regulations and permitting for most activities should be looked at critically,especially examining possibilities of combining different offices, lessening Just said---permanent changes need tobe addressed---not just appointing Homeowners, business people,visitors, all saying life is better here. I think local governments but state mayneed to be involved. Others Support for pre-school education, forfood for all children especially, for parks Not sure No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
fees involved, Make it easy to do the right thing. another committee that gets paid a lotto make recommendations after a long (employers, etc) should have input andcomments but not be in charge. and open spaces, for persons unableto wor
time of study, that no one pays attentionto
Kathleen Samsel 97128 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Growth respect the unban boundaries without moving them Look for sites that are under utilitiesare are standing empty A booming Oregon Asia development All of the above entities in partnership I am not aware of any at the moment What is CA doing No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Do not change any Oregon ruleswithout voter approval- NA
Henry Felton 97086 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth There is a huge barrier in the amount of time it takes to get permits and aswell as a lack of community lead development projects. Investment in small business andnonprofits that are on the ground A substantial ongoing investment intolocal Oregon communities Local governments as well as statelegislatures NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Ashley Walker 97209 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The fact that a dignified life is impossible for the working class people in creating growth.Wealth tax. Extremely high wealth tax. Liberation. The working class I suppose, because Public education, health care, Committed and meaningful wealth Yes Workforce NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I am never voting for a democrat or a NA
our community because the owning class are hoarding wealth. you won’t. infrastructure, and support of the arts. redistribution. republican again, and I will stay in thestreets with my brothers and sisters in
the working class. You’re on the wrongside of history, and you’re not even
enjoying it because you’re stressed outtrying to hide what really drives your
actions. Get some integrity. It feels waybetter.
David Labby 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Improve the education system and access to training. Increase accountability, funding andimprove teacher training. Support early Better test scores All PreSchool for All is a great step in theright direction. Having teacher use the Universal preschool. Science ofReading. More school / teacher No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA We are not adequately preparing for theenergy transition that is coming. Our NA
education science of reading is also critical.Support of community colleges and performance accountability future prosperity will be based onwhether or not we have created an
technical training. electrified transportation and energyinfrastructure to support future
businesses. So far our legislativeleaders, including the governor, have
not shown the kind of vision andcommitment on the energy transition
that will allow Oregon to be a desiredbusiness destination in the future. We
should aim to be the state of the artenergy destination for business. Our
future prosperity depends on it.
Stanley Heath 97479 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The biggest deterrent to economic growth is the tax structure whichpenalizes small businesses, then ad in the way Antifa destroyed the Audit all departments by independentaccountants. Drop restrictions on Success will only come after thepresent administration is replace by The government under its presentleadership style will never make the Hard to think of one. How about starting with voting in personwith ID to begin with? No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
downtown core area of Portland, the homeless and drug culture thatsprawls all over the sidewalks, parks and public areas, the lack of police natural gas use. Crack down on illegalcamping. Stop giving handouts to those conservative, pro-business politicianswho understand how the economic changes needed. You are invested in aworld view that legitimizes and
enforcement and non-prosecution of property crime and you have a recipefor businesses abandoning Oregon. Think Dutch Bros, Nike. How can you who don’t contribute to society. Stopraising corporate taxes. They just pass world works and who won’t stand forthe present conditions of supporting prioritizes all the people who don’tcontribute to the economy and who
deny that the business climate is hostile? Oregon used to be one of themost desirable places to live. Now, the absurd notion that climate change on those charges to us, theircustomers. They are not just going to social programs that drain theresources of the tax pool. make no significant effort to improve thelife of Oregonians and punish those
is the principal by which we should govern ignores the reality that naturalgas is a safe, cheaper and more dependable source of energy. There is “donate” money when you raise theirtaxes. who work hard, obey the laws, pay theirtaxes.
also a huge mistrust of the way government throws money at socialprograms with little accountability on how those programs are
administered. And there is waste, fraud and abuse when there’s laxaccountability.
Crystal Lynn Loggins 97233 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Our education system is not up to date with the changing workforce needs.Updating history books, adding core classes that reflect its needs, and Updating the curriculum and addingcourses that reflect the needs of our Students actively learning how ourinfrastructure is actually built, run, and It takes a village. Everyone shares theload. Money, time, and people, as we NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
preparing them for real world issues is where we should start focusing. workforce. Adding back in things likeShop Class, or adding trade how it grows/changes. More preparedafter graduation to develop their future know, are always the best resources.
introduction courses. Coordinatingvolunteer opportunities to get students pathway.
out into real world situations. Computerprograming, Heavy Machinery,
Warehouse & Facilities Management,or even Medical trades.
Catherine Ellison 97520 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Particularly for the part of Oregon that I live in, I would like to see a muchbigger thrust for renewable energy development. Biggest barrier is Rewards for going solar particularlyhere in the Rogue River Valley where That Oregon's energy needs would befar away from fossil fuel use and that all Legislature (also get Trump out of officemight help) and local governments. Not in the know on this.... anything thatpromotes solar and wind.... Don't know the specifics No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Please phase out use of methane inour state. Especially for new home NA
Trump's impeding development of solar. sunshine is plentiful (as opposed to theWillamette Valley....) homes would have solar. building.
Traci Stout 97007 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate High taxes, crime, ugly downtown Reduce expenses and barriers forbusinesses. Allow natural gas, allow Reduced taxes, less homelessnessand no illegals and less crime Local government I can’t think of any More school choice No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Prosecute criminals and protestors andprotect our police and ICE agents! NA
nuclear energy and stop being asanctuary state!
Brock Nation 97070 Organization/Business Oregon REALTORS® Non-profit NA Real Estate;Housing 1 - 20 people Tools for growth Insufficient supplies of urban lands for needed development is one of themost significant economic challenges faced by the State of Oregon. To address the perception barrier, it iscritical for the Governor’s Prosperity Passage of legislation that fully adaptsour land use system to the needs of the The state government, localgovernments, and land users must all We recommend continuation andexpansion of programs related to In Washington State, only high-growthcounties are required to maintain No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Inadequate urban land supplies hinder the ability of state and localgovernments to create jobs by attracting new employers and expanding Council, as well as the Governor andher staff, to engage early, often, and modern era and the contemporarycrises we seek to address. Decisions act to advocate for and implementneeded change. Failure to do so at any Enterprise Zones, RegionallySignificant Industrial Sites, and “urban growth areas (UGAs)” for thecities within them. Other counties may
existing Oregon businesses. It also has significant impacts on our ability toproduce enough housing to meet the needs of our population. To unambiguously in discussions relatedto land use reform. Engagement should regarding industrial land supply mustbe characteristic-based rather than level will inhibit the ability of Oregon toadvance meaningful solutions to our Brownfield Remediation, and financialincentives to attract new businesses. opt to do so, but are not required to.Overall, 18 counties must maintain
paraphrase Governor Kotek in her address to the 2025 Oregon BusinessPlan Summit: “This is a reach goal, but we shouldn’t be having any other seek to ground the discussion in factsand to present these facts in an easily simply acreage-based. Decisionsregarding residential land supply must cooccurring economic and housingcrises. We also recommend repeal of thesunset date for the one-time UGB UGAs, 10 counties opted to maintainUGAs, and 11 counties are only
kind.” We ascertain there are two broad barriers to addressing urban landsupply deficiencies. The first is intangible; the second is tangible. understandable manner. This will alsohelp policymakers overcome the enable economies of scale to beachieved at all levels. The state, with expansion allowance provisions of SB1537 and removal of the limitation on subjected to certain environmental andresource regulations. For more
Addressing the first barrier – which we will call “perceptions” – is aprerequisite to the success of the Governor’s Prosperity Council in political component of the institutionsbarrier. To address the cultural substantial help from Governor Kotek,has succeeded in enabling economies local governments to use the tool morethan once. information, seehttps://mrsc.org/explore-
addressing the second, tangible barrier – which we will call “institutions”.The perceptions barrier is comprised of two subcomponents. The first component of the intuitions barrier, theGovernor, the Prosperity Council, and of scale at the level of an individual lotor parcel by increasing allowable topics/planning/gma/growth-management-act-basics#required In
subcomponent is an incomplete understanding of the needs of land users.During the “How Oregon Stacks Up: A Site Selector’s View” breakout at the legislators alike must conductmeaningful oversight of the actions of density, but we have failed to enableeconomies of scale at the level of large Oregon, nearly 81% of the totalresidential land needed to
2025 Oregon Business Plan Summit, panelists noted that, on average, 75criteria inform industrial site selection decisions. An incomplete the Department of Land Conservationand Development and the decisions of developable tracts by substantiallylimiting the incorporation of large accommodate 491,347 housing unitsby 2045 is for cities with populations of
understanding of industrial site characteristic needs helps explain why ourland use system still accounts for industrial land needs primarily based on the Land Conservation andDevelopment Commission. This quantities of residential land into urbangrowth boundaries. Additionally, we 10,000 or greater. While undoubtedlycontroversial, it is sensible to only
available acreage rather than based on industry- or company-specific sitecharacteristic needs. This is only one example, but similar incomplete oversight must be thorough andpersistent. must shift the way we plan forresidential development from a require UGBs be maintained by citieswith populations of 10,000 or greater.
understandings also explain difficulties regarding the ability of developersto achieve economies of scale related to housing production. The second paradigm which treats efficiency as aprerequisite to expansion rather than as
subcomponent is largely based in psychology. In addition to confirmationbias, which is well understood, one example is the difficulty the human a means to reduce the needed acreageof subsequent expansions. An apt
brain experiences when attempting to conceptualize large numbers. Basedon the housing type mix safe harbor and minimum densities of the model metaphor is building a house of cards.You must have a sufficiently wide base
codes adopted as part of the OHNA rulemaking, we estimate that the totalacreage needed to realize Oregon’s housing production targets by 2045 is (land supply) to support additionalheight (increased land use efficiency).
roughly 42,200 net acres. While this number sounds massive, it isfunctionally insignificant in terms of the total amount of land in the state – In addition to these recommendations,we have numerous other suggestions
Kari Westlund 97487 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate representing less than 0.07%. To put that in perspective, if all the land inOregon were represented by $100, meeting our housing needs for the nextPermitting time and delays caused by unfounded objections and/or It is too easy to delay projects currently and ideas. Several are listed below. Wewould welcome the opportunity toA reductions in objections and appeals Local jurisdictions could have a higher NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Thank you for your work on the NA
decision appeals. I'm not sure if this has been talked about but it is a veryreal hurdle for projects large and small. The system feels baked to delay or so perhaps it is a more stringentburden of evidence by groups opposing to projects, with more projectscompleted on a steady and predictable standard for kicking a permit. Currentlyif a land watch group writes a letter, the important issues holding Oregon backfrom economic prosperity. I know you
block development rather than facilitate development a project, tied to existing law orregulation. Perhaps it is an allocation of timeline. permit is kicked and the projectdeveloper faces a time/cost hurdle to have received a lot of valuable input onsite readiness and other topics. I hope
time by staff processing permits to verifythe credibility of an objection. Perhaps it overcome the objection. It feels like staffplay a minimal role in assessing your time and effort results in a morevibrant economy for Oregon.
is financial consequences to bear partor all of the cost of overcoming frivolous credibility. Perhaps it is a State law thatraises the bar to a defined standard tied
objections. Perhaps a single group islimited in how many permits it can try to to existing laws and regulations, OR arequirement that the legal and
block each year or each quarter. consulting costs of a frivolousobjection/appeal be born by the
organization trying to block what isultimately determined to be a legitimate
Debra Porta PORTA 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The focus on a small group of input without a full diversity of voices will Expand the timeline for input; ACTIVELY Investment in prevention of what puts development application.The Governor needs to lead by example Too broad a question to answer. What I Boston, Houston. PLEASE engage with No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA This city is full of smart people, NA
result in the same old results, benefiting the same voices that tend to bebenefited. invite broad community input andengagement; engage the venues and people on the streets (they get a lot ofblame from business without and set these expectations. would like to see is for the state, insetting expectations and parameters for the Welcome Home Coalition. So manysolutions found-and ignored by those passion, and great ideas. The levers ofpower need to engage them, period.
organizers of large events andactivations that are frequently investment in real solutions), asopposed to penalizing them for this process, to think more creatively,include more voices, and actually aim to able to actually make change.
overlooked as economic drivers for thecity core. decisions made beyond their control.Active engagement of small solve issues as opposed to theappearance of things.
businesses, artists/creatives, thepeople who live (and not just own
businesses) downtown, community thatdepends on venues, events, and
Amy Thomas 97709 Organization/Business 350 Deschutes Non-profit NA Climate 1 - 20 people Business climate Oregon’s shift to clean energy is a huge economic opportunity, but there Long-term funding and easy-to-navigate services downtownIncreased investment in Oregon’s clean State agencies to manage and deploy State rebate and incentive programs for I think we need incentives for builders to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Advocacyand are still some real challenges. Limited grid capacity and infrastructure,complicated permitting, and the need for clear, consistent policies all make programs for consumers, wholesalers,and contractors to adopt electric energy economy, including incentives. incentive programs efficiently.Education and workforce partners to EVs, heat pumps, solar + storage,medium/heavy-duty vehicles, and build all electric homes. Gascompanies incentivize them to put in
Education(Green it harder to move projects forward. If the state doesn’t stay engaged andsupportive, there’s a real chance clean energy jobs and investment could vehicles, heat pumps, and other cleanenergy technologies. ensure training aligns with growingclean energy jobs. community renewables. gas infastructure. States with long-term,stable incentives for clean energy
Careers) end up in other states instead. adoption and manufacturing (e.g.,California’s EV incentives,
Massachusetts’ clean heat programs)show higher market uptake and job
creation.
Madeline Carroll 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The best climate for business is a highly skilled labor force that’s paidfamily wages Protect Preschool for All Every family has access to free highquality childcare Everyone Preschool for All Universal free pre-K is gainingmomentum nationwide. The program Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
we already have here is a nationalmodel for how it could and should be
done. Expanding it while keeping thequality high will help our region remain
competitive when it comes to attractingand retaining workers and their young
families.
sandra comstock 97202 Both Community Stewardship Private Business andProfessional Organizational 1 - 20 people Tools for growth More investment in housing and early childhood education / workforce prep invest in robust non-profit / publiclyowned mixed income Social Housing form legal / policy / department to fosterestablishment of mixed income social legislature / local governments / nonprofit housing production and not sure vienna No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA we need affordable childcare andhousing, and better funding for grade NA
Services Consulting make childcare affordable for all housing modeled on vienna - acquire at3 rental properties / 300 units to begin management - to create the fundingand legal / zoning mechanisms to schools in order to have and attract astrong workforce - these are critical
building our social housing stocksupport current prek for all promote this components of thriving businesses
