Oregon Farm Bureau Responds to Governor Kotek’s
Prosperity Council and Recommendations
May 18, 2026
The Oregon Prosperity Roadmap articulates an ambitious and necessary vision for growing
Oregon’s GDP, strengthening workforce participation, and reducing barriers to investment. Its
emphasis on data-driven decision-making, streamlined permitting, and statewide economic
coordination provides a constructive starting point for improving Oregon’s business climate.
However, a roadmap to prosperity that doesn’t include dirt and gravel roads will be incomplete. By
focusing largely on industry attraction and mobility, the Roadmap understates the importance of
production agriculture, the industry that is already here, already invested, and already supporting
Oregon’s economy in every corner and county of the state.
Agriculture is not a future opportunity waiting to be developed; it is an existing economic engine
that supports jobs, exports, manufacturing, trade, and rural communities across the state.
Agriculture and food processing remain foundational pillars of Oregon’s economy. When
accounting for their downstream economic impacts, agriculture and natural resource industries
rank among the state’s largest economic drivers. Yet despite their economic significance, these
industries are too often overlooked in policy discussions or treated as obstacles to development
rather than as essential assets to the state’s long-term prosperity.
Oregon’s geography, climate, and irrigation systems support one of the most diverse agricultural
economies in the United States. Oregon’s Department of Agriculture identifies eight distinct
agricultural regions in our state.
1
Regional Highlights
• Willamette Valley – Often described as “the most diverse agricultural region on earth,” this
area produces more than 170 crops. This diversity reflects the innovation and stewardship of
Oregon farmers who help supply both local communities and global markets. The valley is the
center of much of Oregon’s specialty crop production.
1
ODA – Oregon Agriculture Regions
