Dear Members of the Governor’s Prosperity Council,
On behalf of Move Oregon Forward, a coalition of transportation and environmental advocacy organizations,
we are pleased to share the attached report, Smarter Investing in Transportation for a Stronger Oregon
Economy, as a resource for the Council’s work. At its core, transportation policy is not separate from
economic policy; it is economic policy. The way Oregon raises, prioritizes, and spends transportation
dollars directly affects the strength and success of our economy.
The report, a compilation of best practices from across the United States of America and other countries,
demonstrates that Oregon’s strongest transportation business case is not a status quo approach that too often
defaults to costly expansion before lower-cost preservation, safety, operational, and multimodal strategies.
Rather, it is a disciplined investment approach that creates durable transportation solutions. The report
demonstrates a need to focus on maintenance and repair of the current system and additional investments in:
● Improved safety infrastructure
● Expanded transit and active transportation options
● Transportation electrification and charging infrastructure
● Clean energy made in the Northwest, powering clean electric vehicles, combined with grid resilience
● Efficient land use
Providing people with transportation options and electrifying the system will lower household costs, connect
more workers to jobs, improve access to customers and main streets, and generate more economic value for
each public dollar.
The Council’s work offers an important opportunity to connect Oregon’s economic strategy with its
transportation strategy. If Oregon wants a stronger economy, it needs a transportation system that gives people
and businesses more reliable, affordable, and efficient ways to move. Safety, transit, walking and biking,
electrification, freight reliability, and good governance should not be treated as side issues. They are core
economic infrastructure.
Please use this report as a resource as the Council develops recommendations for the Governor and the state.
We would welcome the opportunity to discuss the findings further.
Sincerely,
Move Oregon Forward
