Centering Low- & Middle-Income Oregonians
The Governor’s and Legislature’s number one goal should be raising incomes for lower and
middle-income Oregon residents, not simply increasing the number of jobs or the size of the
economy. Oregon has been a leader in raising the minimum wage to help those at the bottom
and has adopted and improved an Earned Income Tax Credit that primarily helps low-income
working households with children. This provides the state with a competitive advantage as
workers above the minimum wage have also benefitted by the floor being raised.
Since 2005, Oregon has had among the highest minimum wages in the US, and this has played
a key role in increasing average wages paid to lower wage workers. Since 2008, wages for
Oregon’s low-wage and middle-wage workers have substantially outpaced those for the rest of
the United States.
In 2008, wages for Oregon workers earning the median hourly wage and wages for the lowest
paid ten percent of workers (the tenth percentile) were roughly equal to the national average.
Since then, adjusted for inflation, Oregon wages at the tenth percentile have grown much faster
than for the United States as a whole (37 percent vs. 29 percent), and wages at the median
have also grown faster (24 percent vs. 16 percent).
Oregon Raises the Minimum Wage and
Wage Growth Outpaces the National Average
OREGON 2008 2025 Increase
Median Worker $22.18 $27.50 24%
Tenth Percentile (Low wage) $11.73 $16.03 37%
UNITED STATES 2008 2025 Increase
Median Worker $22.16 $25.67 16%
Tenth Percentile (Low wage) $11.27 $14.56 29%
Source: Economic Policy Institute, Bureau of Labor Statistics data
This improvement in wages, which occurred as Oregon steadily increased minimum wages,
helped improve the overall equity of the Oregon economy, compared to other states.
Strategically raising the incomes of low- and middle-income households is key to making
housing affordable.
Building Out the Workforce
A highly skilled and educated workforce is the single most powerful economic lever for
increasing incomes for low- and moderate-income Oregonians
The single most critical factor linked to higher incomes is increasing skills and education. States
with well-educated and well-trained populations have high incomes; states with lower
educational attainment have lower incomes. In fact, the fraction of the adult population with a
four-year college degree statistically explains seventy percent (70%) of the variation in per
capita income across the 50 states.
The High Road to Prosperity for All Oregonians Page 7 of 17
