Susan Andrews 97229 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Smart planning for current industrial and urban zoned areas to preserve ourvaluable rural, forest, farm and wildlife resources. Assumption that high If we plan how to most effectively useour land that is currently zoned for a diversity of businesses would bedeveloping across our state, providing The legislature needs to stopconsidering bills to convert farmland Educational programs in communitycolleges to develop trades and other NA Yes Business climate NA It doesn't seem like tax breaks tocompanies like those given to Intel for Tax breaks should expire. Do partialdevelopment to make our industrial A broader diversity of industrial sectorswould consider Oregon attractive to NA NA NA Yes Workforce It seems that our higher ed programschase current industry needs rather Use business tax revenues to invest inprograms to build workforce in new We could develop a broader set ofsectors in other areas, such as Bend, We need to invest in workforcedevelopment in new areas. Intel partnered with PCC to growtechnician skills. The intersection of research andeducation and industry in Raleigh NC. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Data Centers are hurting us. They stealresources and development sites from NA
tech growth has to be concentrated in one area, or that it is the best sectorto pursue business growth industrial uses, for example identifyingtypes of high value industry that creates jobs across a broader sector of thestate, a variety of jobs rather than just into industrial land use. We have plentyof industrial land and it was planned in manufacturing skills. Preschool for all. workforce development ever stop. It isone thing to offer a tax break to attract a zoned sites faster to production. Investin college programs to grow workforce build in. They would get a fair tax anddevelopment package but not expect to than having the resources needed tocreate new workforce skills desirable skill areas that will attract newindustries, such as drug mfg, Salem, etc. Companies like Boeingand Merck would look at Oregon as a industries that can benefit us throughbetter employment and investment in
jobs and tax revenue, and turning downbusiness uses like data centers that technical engineering, and hopefullygrowth in some industries that are not a way that spread out the opportunitiesbeyond Washington County only. Local new industry or large company andanother to keep those tax breaks in in new sectors get tax breaks forever and the statewould use that tax revenue to invest in aerospace, etc. desirable place to grow. our communities.
don't pay back in the long run, it willremove the constant push to develop as dependent on huge quantities ofwater and electricity. governments need to stop allowingdata centers to consume all their place for 30 years. We don't provideenough other incentives, like providing growth.
rural lands that are supposed to bepreserved. industrial land allotments and seek outbetter job creating, resource preserving fully or partially developed industrialsites. We probably also need to invest
industry uses for their sites. OSU andOSHU could expand biotech education in developing additional workforcesectors in our college programs.
programs, we could grow drugmanufacturing. We could be looking to
attract aerospace, automotive and othersectors of industry instead of
concentrating on computers/high tech.
Anita Andazola 87404 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Ill informed business, especially those coming from other states, thatmake significant decisions and real estate purchases without knowledge Up front information and potentialalternatives to all incoming and existing Well thought out, sustainable businessmodels respectful of the progressive The legislature, the Secretary of State,Department of State Lands and DLCD, N/A N/A. Grow our own. Lead, not follow. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA N/A NA
of and respect for state and local land use laws. business. Heavy fines for the "act first,beg forgiveness later crowd. Oregon culture of the state. strong incentives for new businessmodels, progressive training and
must remain true to its progressiveroots. education for working class andstudents, retraining for older workers,
realistic funding for ODFW and Statewater resources.
Chris Workman 97370 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate With a corporate tax rate of 7.6% and a top individual income tax rate of9.9%, businesses and employees alike feel the pinch. The hefty gasoline Lower the corporate tax rate andincome tax rates across the board. businesses stop leaving the state forless expensive states. state legislature, led by the governor'scall to lower taxes throughout the state. Infrastructure is in good shape overall.Most other services are failing. lower taxes. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Better schools also lead to betterbusiness owners wanting to stay in the NA
tax of 58.40 cents per gallon also hurts. State. There is room for improvement incrime rate, economy, education, health
care, senior services, and naturalenvironment protection.
Margaret Butler 97213 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate inequality: For business to thrive, customers need to be economicallystable. Environmental Protection: We are at the point of no-return in terms policies that raise wages at the bottom(increase in the minimum wage). A more stable community with thrivingsmall businesses More stable wild Legislature and citizens NA NA Yes Tools for growth NA the problems with data centerstransition off fossil fuels --we are I would like to see an end to tax breaksfor data centers. The money can be NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It would have been much better to havea more open-ended survey with a NA
of our warming world. There is no profit on a dead planet. Increased spending on services to helppeople get out of homelessness, lands throughout Oregon reaching or passing tipping points asthe earth warms. We will see more and better used for state services. Many ofthe data center developers are big longer time frame.
including treatment, housing and otherservices. Preschool for all also more extreme weather andunpredictable growing seasons, sea global tech companies. Data centersare going after valuable farmland at a
provides support for low incomeparents, as well as raising standards level rise, etc. time when climate change is making itharder to grow food, are covering critical
for childcare workers, who do the mostimportant work for very little. We need habitat with concrete, are increasing ourclimate emissions and releasing other
to reject proposals to increase loggingon BLM land and we need to support pollutants into our communities, Theyare using so much water and electricity,
and care for our forests by institutingpermanent protections for mature and it puts a strain on our systems. With thewarming world, water use is particularly
old-growth forests on federal and statelands; We also need to develop problematic. I would like to see amoratorium on the expansion and build-
strategies for reducing greenhouse gasemissions from the logging and wood out of all new data centers untilrequirements are in place for
products industry in Oregon (the state'slargest source of greenhouse gas transparency in all proposals for datacenters. Communities need
emissions); information and to be able to say yes orno to these centers which bring many
questionable practices with them(methane use, backup generators,
noise pollution as well as water use,soil degradation). Prosperity in the
longer term is only possible if everyone,including the Prosperity Council, takes
into account our changing climate andmakes some recommendations
around electrifying everything,transforming our transportation sector
William F Nelson 97756 Myself NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Yes NA Environmental Federal Overreach with more clean public transit and highspeed rail.Hold current state forest and wildlife Continued prosperity for Fish & Wildlife Oregon Leadership at State and NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
management best practices overOregon's wild areas. Continued public access to forestsenvironments Protection of forest Federal levels need to stand for our wildlands.
Roger Sabbadini 97703 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth protect public lands protect old grow forests by restricting support Roadless Rule Conservation Oregon Department of Forestry. NW Forest Plan and resist federal California and Washington States No NA NA NA NA habitatsNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Recreation and tourism depends on NA
harvest rotations to longer ones,establish 21 inch rule (e.g., East Side Act, stop wood biomass plantdevelopment, establish 21 inch rule, Enforcement and compliance plans to open new acreage to timberharvesting (e.g, Fix Our Forest Act, Big robust environmental laws. On waterissues, revisit turn of 20th century water
Screen) applied state wide, restrictthinning and prescribed burns, no ensure compliance and enforcement Beautiful Bill, and Executive orders rights
clearcutting on public lands
Ron Kutch 97420 Both West Coast Contractors Private NA Construction 21-100 people Business climate Over-regulation and mismatched regulations 1. Put the Regional Solutions effortsback to what they were intended to do - 1. Reduced permitting time and hurdlesto getting development done. 2. 1. Governor Kotek MUST take the leadto work with Business and keep the I am having a hard time thinking of one.I appreciate Oregon's focus on 1. Shortened timelines for developmentand permitting WRITTEN INTO THE No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA I am not promoting Slash and Burnpolicies. I am proposing common NA
reduce barriers to economicdevelopment. 2. Align state agencies Democrats WORKING withRepublicans to break the stalemate Legislature driving toward commonsense solutions. 2. Legislature MUST protecting the environment, but "Notseeing the forest for the trees", STATE CONSTITUTIONenvironmental organizations run the 2. Not letting sense policies that will help ALLOregonians by removing obstacles to
to reduce the time and paperworkrequired to get s...tuff done. 3. LISTEN and getting s....tuff done.new housing units in 3 years, the 3. 100,000 stop the infighting (on BOTH sides) andGet S....tuff Done. They MUST "Shooting myself in the foot" and "VirtueSignaling" can describe Oregon's state. progress. The state runs on taxrevenue. Lets find common sense ways
to the business sector. We know whatneeds to happen to get Oregon out of majority Workforce Housing.Unions no longer running every sector 4. Labor understand that onerous taxes will drivebusiness and revenues away from attitude toward protections. So manythings just don't make sense, but the to increase revenue, not tax andregulate business and jobs out of the
the Doom Loop. LISTEN to what wehave to say. 4. PARTNER with of development when they are creatinghurdles Oregon.come together and Get S....tuff Done. 3. Regulatory Agencies MUST environmental organizations hare indeep with the folks who make the rules. state AND keep Oregon Green. The twoare not enemies of one another. WE
business to make Oregon a great placeto live, work and play again. 5. Get out Oregon is the MOST REGULATEDSTATE IN THE UNION. Agencies And their motto is "STOP S....tuf fromgetting done" even when it goes not CAN DO THIS!!!
of the way of building WorkforceHousing. If we are going to prosper, we contradict each other and work in silos.This has to stop. make sense.
need places for our workforce to live.This may well require taking on the
Labor Unions.Party to get out of the way of sensible 6. DIRECT the Majority
progress.Government and are here to help" The "We are the
attitude must go.
Susan Sokol Blosser 97114 Organization/Business Sokol Blosser Winery Private Food andBeverage NA 21-100 people Tools for growth Excess traffic impedes tourism as well as employees ingress and egress.the first leg of the Dundee Bypass has shifted traffic west of Dundee with Do the third leg of the Dundee Bypass It will take more than 2-3 years but theresult will be improved traffic flow and The planning has taken place and theroute established. Just waiting for The first leg of the Dundee Bypass hasgiven Newberg's and Dundee's More roundabouts to keep traffic flowing. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
major impact on wineries and their visitors encourage more local tourism funding, which will take multiplesources working together. downtowns back to them so they candevelop their economic community.
Tracey Rainey Smith 97267-1214 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Funding in education Increase funding to school districts A school, stocked with professionals(certified and classified). Enough, being State legislature, school districts,education & training partners. The state park programs. I've seen cities use a tourist tax onhotels, restaurants and the like, to help No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
paid a living wage, to support ALLstudents in that school. Able to address fund education. Maybe that's somethingthat could help.
all student needs successfully not justputting out fires. And students thriving.
Andrew Simrin 97404 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Oregon’s economy depends on a healthy environment. Our forests, rivers,and other incredible natural resources support an outdoor recreation Permanent protections for mature andold-growth forests on federal and state Protected drinking watersheds, end tologging of mature and old growth The Governor’s office and statelegislature should lead in developing Oregon’s Natural Climate Solutions billand Natural and Working Lands Fund See examples here:https://www.ncel.net/articles/new-report- No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA
industry worth $16 billion in annual consumer spending and approximately192,000 full- and part-time jobs. However, development, logging, mining, lands; forests on federal lands, on track toprotect an additional 10% of lands and new policies to protect Oregon’s publiclands and forests, and should call on were both important forest steps forsupporting better practices on private state-policy-leadership-to-conserve-nature/
climate change, and biodiversity loss threaten this economy. The ProsperityCouncil should recommend the strongest possible protections for water in 10 years, and reducedgreenhouse gas emissions from the Oregon’s congressional delegation todo the same. lands. The state should invest more inthis program. On federal lands
Oregon’s public lands, and should include recommendations for investingin natural climate solutions, such as protections for our mature and old- logging industry. (approximately 50% of Oregon's land ismanaged by the federal government),
growth forests. The Trump administration’s efforts to privatize and liquidatenatural resources from public lands represent one of the greatest threats the Prosperity Council shouldrecommend strong support for current
we’ve had to contend with in decades. The Prosperity Council shouldrecommend strong opposition to these attacks conservation measures, including theNorthwest Forest Plan, the Roadless
Rule, and protections for mature andold-growth forests on Western Bureau
of Land Management Lands. TheTrump administration’s efforts to
privatize public lands and liquidateOregon natural resources is not in line
with the values of Oregonians.
Bob Rossi 97301 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Whose prosperity are we really talking about? Why isn't there a school-to-union job pipeline? What are the ways forward for prevailing wage Legislation restricting AI, a union role ineducation in the schools (especially in Draft legislation and goals set in all ofthese areas, plans for pilot programs in Legislators, Labor, education/trainingpartners. We need to limit or close the Education, environmental quality, BOLI. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
agreements and project labor agreements in the public and private sectorsthat don't have no-strike clauses? How can we rein in AI? trades and computer learning),changing the state constitution to allow the schools, regional hearings on AI. role of out-of-state actors in determiningour future.
for or require prevailing wageagreements and project labor
agreements with the right to strike in thepublic and private sectors.
Mike Beilstein 97330 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Housing availability and affordability Investment in public housing/socialhousing. We need to separate housing Housing costs/rents stabilize or fallrelative to wages Both the state and local governmentsneed to invest in rent controlled living Non-profit housing developers, such asDevNW. Seattle has a payroll tax dedicated toaffordable housing development. Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Focus on increasing wages foressential workers, such as teachers, NA
from the market economy. The inflationof housing costs/rents is far spaces. service workers, health care providers.Don't recruit high income workers. If
outstripping gains in wages. workers can't afford to live here, wehave no need to bring in new
employees who can out-compete forhousing.
Patrick OHerron 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The state needs to prioritize essential services like healthcare, housing,and education. Rich people need to pay their taxes and stop complaining. Do not give a Texas billionaire $300million for the MODA center. Fully No new data centers. Getting rid ofexisting data centers. No hospitals Legislature and local governments,primarily Preschool for all, energy trust ofOregon, supportive housing, Oregon Billionaire taxes, banning data centers,renewable energy standards No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The trickle down economics that arecoming out of the Governor’s office have NA
support preschool for all. closing, fewer people living on thestreets. health plan, Portland Clean Energy fund been debunked time and again. Wehave record levels of income Inequality
because of the types of “businessfriendly” policies that Governor Kotek
seems bent on pushing don’t result inshared prosperity. They result in the rich
getting richer and the poor gettingpoorer.
Kristen Malone 97213 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I would like free, high quality public education in Oregon. I want families tofeel incentivized to send kids to public schools. Cost of living is increasing Keep preschool for all and expand it toother counties in Oregon Preschool for all is fully ramped up inmulnomah county. Preschool for all has Legislature and local governments Preschool for all!! I want it to keepexpanding. I make enough money that I would love for cheaper publictransportation and expanded No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
every year. We need to make Oregon a leader in childhood education. Iwant Oregon to expand preschool for all beyond multnomah county. begun expanding to other counties inOregon. More families move to Oregon my taxes help fund the program and I’mvery proud of that! bus/metro/train routes. I want less carsin the road and Portland to maintain a
Education is a social good for society. It allows parents to work, employersto have an educated and skilled labor force. bike friendly city. I also see that NY isexpanding free 2k, 3k and I want
Oregon to expand childhood education
Laura Cheshire 97338 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Affordability in how it relates to workers at all levels. Reduce taxes for those making $50,000yearly or less. Enhance day care Less food insecurity, parents moreeasily working full time jobs for better Federal and state legislatures,employers and community members. Low cost housing support. OHP, WICand SNAP programs. Mail-in Voting. NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
access and quality at reasonable fees.Ensure safety for all legal immigrants. pay, and less anxiety and fear in theimmigrant and immigrant adjacent
Spa La 97209 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth The investment in big business has always been a wrong quick fix in Investment more in entrepreneurs, families.Apprentice programs in the trades and Yes. All of those ("legislature, local Healthcare for the under- or uninsured There are an abundance of ones to No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Oregon (think: Hyundai, data centers, Sony), where it is proven, as in moststates, that small business is what keeps the economy afloat. small business, training people in tech,and establishing vocational training other vocations in at least some of thelarger high schools. Examining where governments, employers,education/training partners, etc.”). It’s a is important, even if it does not addressthis head on. draw on from other states. And perhapsin our own.
programs and apprenticeships in highschool. We are losing electricians, nursing training programs have beencut, and making sure they are funded. coordinated effort. And taxes. But also,even though it is a federal entity, the
shoe repair, plumbers, nurses, and theopportunity to train cooks, chefs, data Tax breaks not for the massiveindustries that tend to employ few and people who work for SBA are local andgrounded in their communities. They
analysts and other trades early, in highschool. Give students a chance to have ties to the community that areminimal, but instead giving grants to would be good resources forinterviewing to find out what’s needed.
explore early and develop mentorshiprelationships with adults, not just have small businesses.
presentations in high school classes.
John Pascone 97321-2227 Both LINN ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT GROUP Non-profit Business andProfessional EconomicDevelopmen 1 - 20 people Business climate land use restrictions, wetland costs and barriers, regulations change land use laws, expand wetlandbanks to lower the cost, ease or more land for business expansion andfor housing more affordable and the Governor and her department heads Enterprise Zonesfunding RSIS, infrastructure Washington state, Texas, otherSoutheast states Yes Business climate NA "The Business of America is Business" without business there are no jobs orprosperity or housing or the need for more land for more businessinvestment, more jobs, more housing Governor, legislatures, everyone Business Oregon needs a fundingmodel like Travel Oregon so funds can Just look at the prosperous states No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Besides looking and reporting, have anaction plan and funding that does the NA
Services t - allindustries, eliminate regulations on businessoperations available wetland credits regulatorsthat help businesses not punish them government allows more prosperity. Growth; if weare not growing we dying. be generated to provide incentives andfunding work.
Lynn Smith 97040 Myself NA NA NA traded sectorNA NA Workforce K-12 reading programs Ensure that K-12 and specifically K-5teachers are adequately trained to Improved reading scores for k-12students. Legislature: require teachers to passreading instructions standards that NA Every new Oregon elementary teachermust pass a standalone exam in the No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
teach reading. Currently , they are notand students are unprepared to exist in other states (eg, CA) science of reading
Donna Grubbs 97058 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The data center in The Dalles, increase in utility costs, tax breaks given to advance to middlea d high school, letalone college.The data center pays their fair share, An open agreement brought before city Local government, perhaps state Protection of our wildlife and California has enacted laws protecting No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Support to Gorge Grown, Oregon’s NA
businesses while driving residential costs higher. Attempts to purchasemore water by data centers, our local farmers fretting about corps. These the company environmental statementsbecome transparent so citizens are Council and agreed upon by residentsby vote. regarding pollution and water warmingissues. environment. That our public lands andwaterwaysremain public for the next residents from data centers raisingresidential expenses. Farmers Market Association, Food andWater Watch for data center information
crops drive our tourism and our culture as rural communities. assured pollution is at a minimum.Proof that water warming issues are not generations to enjoy.
harming salmon and other aquaticspecies.
Otis Goad 97434 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Why bother, when every company is working hard to replace workers withAI? Government is paving the way for my replacement and has no desire to Replace ALL positions in Oregongovernment with less corrupt fools. Staff If I am still employable as an engineerwith 20 years experience in industry. The government is feverishly pushingfor AI to replace the workers. The Oregon policies are to tax me until I ampoor. Then supply needles to me when Elect better government. Oregon politicsare hopelessly corrupt and are not No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA You have enough money. Stop wastingit. Stop increasing taxes without NA
serve the public. Not in any effective way.my AI replacement as I type this. My employer is having me train the positions with working class peoplethat will make good choices. Stop all Success would be: implementingprotections for the workers incentives government IS the problem and cannotbe expected to help the worker. The I get hooked on drugs.programs to help working families. There are no going to get better with Kotek. Maybeher wife can get a position in showing results on the taxes wealready pay. Stop making deals with
the corruption. Stop all the wastefulspending. Stop allowing out of state to hire humans reduce tax burden onworking people Stop trying to make government works for money, and Ihave none. So it does not work for me None. Only taxes and needles. Everynew policy is anti-worker, anti-family, government somewhere. That will help!As long as Portland voters are the only your friends. Stop the open and blatantcorruption. Focus on how to pay
groups from using our state as a testbed for failed policy. Stop with nepotistic positions for family members withingovernment. Stop favoring massive and never has in my lifetime.way the people will get what is The only anti-human. ones to matter for the entire state, wewill continue to fail as a state. Maybe workers better. Focus on how to makebusinesses respect workers. Fix
appointments. Stop favoring Walmart'sinterests over the people's interest - for corporations over living breathingpeople. Stop trying to prevent small deserved, is if we all collectively standup and react. Tar and feather political after it fails, we can start electing honesthard working Americans instead of the healthcare.You do not care. You know all this already. Just stop taking
example.Oregon government took its boot off my I am a successful person. If business ventures.be me living without the boot of Success would leaders and worse to business leadersthat are anti worker and anti-American. nepotistic ghouls we have beenelecting. everything from me, stop restricting myrights, stop restricting my access to
neck, I would excel. As it is now, I amstaying afloat but the boot is pressing oppression on my neck. Kotek will not do anything beneficial forreal living Oregonians. She has not yet, success and I will do just fine. Lift yourboot off my neck and watch me fly. But
down more and more every day.will dismiss this and all my other points. You why start now? I am not sure why botherasking now since she has not cared that is not what you really want. And itreally does show. But this will be
what we need and want so far.not care about the citizens, only monied You do ignored.really provided actionable items here. I I understand that I have not
interests. I have no money left to beinteresting. understand that I am a peasant and thelords/ladies will know best and will
administer their decree to us as theysee fit. What I do not understand is why
even bother asking. You are not goingto fix anything. You are going to enrich
yourselves while holding me down withyour boot. Good day
Mark Moisan 97115 Both Small inn (lodging) inDundee Private NA Hospitality 1 - 20 people Business climate The ongoing structural deficits at nearly every level of government ismaddening. The ghosts of measure 50 need to be tackled head on. Too Nix measure 50 and related measures,as well as the Corporate Activity tax, and (1) Stable funding source for school,roads; (2) no odd, poorly managed tax Requires legislative action. With theright thinkers, might be able to win I like roads and schools. I don't understand why ODOT runs thestate vehicle inspection program. Other No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
much money in some areas and not enough in others, and impossible tore-balance because of how we've tinkered with the system. propose a rational revenue strategy thatis predictable, sustainable, and buckets like Portland's arts tax, dozensof local levies; (3) A larger percentage of bipartisan support by nixing Measure50, etc., while also nixing the Corporate states certify local car mechanics tocomplete the inspections.
ATTRACTS businesses instead ofscaring them to other states. dollars in the general fund; (4) Schoolsfunded MORE from local taxes instead Activity Tax, etc.
of inadequate state funding algorithms.
Anne Simpson Wagner 97230-8610 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth I'm having a bit of difficulty integrating the fact that we're only talkingbusiness/economy here. I suppose I am not sufficiently aware of the I don't know if this is a change, but Iwould like to know that, when we are I live on East side, so for me it wouldlook like reasonably-paved main Yes. All listed, and some people mayhave more ideas I don't think I know enough to speakeffectively to this. This is really an off-the-cuff comment,but I lived for 65 years in CO/WY. One of No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Actually, think I commented on thingson my mind in the 1st para. Thanks for NA
Purpose Statement of the Prosperity Council. Having that as part of theintro. to this survey might have been helpful because, in addition to tools for "incentivizing big businesses", we alsohave asking for clear statements of thoroughfares and safe infrastructure,big & small businesses opening, more the towns I often think of is Boulder,which effectively, years ago, created a 3- asking "the common citizen" about herthoughts!
business and economic growth, which I do plan to say a little about, I washoping to be able to address: - increasing housing availability, - asking support of Oregon values. I want toknow that companies are laying out people walking the streets in the mainand mini-downtowns, more people 4 block walking mall in the downtownarea that became a magnet for people
the State Legislature to reconsider the "Kicker" which is, frankly, anassinine and antiquie piece of legislation, and - creating plans for gov't'l their plans for benefitting All of ourcitizens, not just the wealthy, and not using public transportation again, ....and a sprinkling of those exciting things wanting to get out, do a little funshopping/eating/hanging with friends,....
accountability which stops millions of $$ from being "misplaced andunspent." Those three things are high on my recommendations, also. only through their taxes paid in theirRaison D'Etre. I would like small opening like the James Beard Market! Itwould look like more reasonably priced similar to this for a bit of downtownRecently, I think there was a proposal
creative businesses to have someparticular avenues of support. One of housing coming on the market, moresupport helping people on the streets Portland, and it was apparently "sunk". Iwonder if it wasn't "sold" well...
the things that Portland and every smalltown benefit from in their quality of life is get themselves off the streets, moreaddictive services to support that
small, creative businesses who makethem feel like this is not just a movement back into housing.... I don'tknow. This is more than 2-3 years.
community of big box and big businesssuccess - feel like this is a home they
want to live in.
Heather Avilla 97015 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Cost of living is outrageous and employers refuse to meet the need byraising wages Restrict rent costs, utilities, gas, foodprice gouging or raise the wages to More people housed and fed andinsured, etc. Local government because the federalgovernment is Not on our side I don't qualify for any assistance. Butdefinitely WIC, SNAP, OHP MCD, for Check out WA, CA, Michigan, New York,New Mexico No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
meet the cost of living. Restriction CEOpay to a small percentage, and Tax the sure
Rich appropriately!!! We also need MCRfor all, free preschool/childcare, more
mental healthcare options, access tounion tradeschools, restrict the cost of
college or make it free again
John 97850 Organization/Business City of La Grande Oregon Public Business andProfessional Government 1000+ people Tools for growth A key challenge for communities like La Grande is the growing disconnectbetween the cost of maintaining essential public services and I would recommend expanding localauthority and flexibility for cities to Success in 2–3 years would meancommunities like La Grande are no Achieving this outcome will requirecoordinated action across multiple Oregon has several programs andpolicy frameworks that are highly Several states have implementedpractical, flexible approaches that better Yes Workforce NA A key challenge for La Grande andsimilar communities is the growing I would recommend creating a morelocally adaptable workforce Success in 2–3 years would meancommunities like La Grande are seeing Achieving meaningful progress inworkforce alignment will require Oregon has several workforce andeducation programs that are valuable to Several states have implementedworkforce approaches that better Yes Business climate A key challenge for communities like LaGrande is the lack of alignment I would recommend creating a morepredictable, coordinated, and locally Success in 2–3 years would meancommunities like La Grande are able to Achieving a more effective businessclimate will require coordinated action Several existing programs andframeworks are valuable and should be Several states have implementedpractices that improve predictability and No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA One of the most importantconsiderations for communities like La NA
Services infrastructure, and the limited tools available to generate sustainable,locally responsive revenue. Cities are being asked to support housing implement scalable, locally tailoredrevenue and financing tools that directly longer reacting to financial pressure,but are proactively managing growth, levels, with the State playing a keyenabling role and local governments valuable to communities like La Grandeand should be continued and align growth, infrastructure, and servicedelivery, particularly for small and mid- disconnect between local workforcedevelopment systems and the actual development model that empowerscommunities to align training, measurable improvements in theirability to attract, develop, and retain a coordinated action across multiplepartners, with each playing a distinct but communities like La Grande andshould be continued and strengthened. connect education, training, andemployment to the real needs of local between regulatory expectations,permitting processes, and the pace and adaptable business environment thatsupports timely decision-making while provide a more predictable and efficientenvironment for business investment across multiple levels: StateLegislature and State Agencies: Must continued: Business Oregon Programs:Provide important support for business efficiency in their business climate: One-Stop Permitting Systems: Centralized Grande is that long-term prosperitydepends on alignment, not just growth.
growth, economic development, and infrastructure expansion, but thefunding mechanisms available, particularly for smaller and rural align growth with infrastructure andservice capacity. Specifically: Authorize infrastructure, and service deliverythrough aligned and sustainable leading implementation. StateLegislature and State Agencies – Must strengthened. Urban Renewal (URA):Provides a critical tool for targeted sized communities. Locally FlexibleRevenue Authority: Some states allow workforce needs of small and mid-sized communities. While statewide education, and talent pipelines withtheir specific economic and service workforce that aligns with both localeconomic needs and essential public complementary role. State Legislatureand State Agencies: Must provide Community College and CareerTechnical Education (CTE) Programs: communities, particularly in rural areas.Employer-Led, Locally Driven Training scale at which smaller communitiescan realistically support business maintaining appropriate standards.Specifically: Streamline and standardize while maintaining strong publicservices and infrastructure. Specifically, streamline regulatory frameworks,provide flexibility for local development, financing, and jobcreation. Oregon’s Land Use Planning platforms that allow businesses tonavigate permitting requirements Communities are being asked tosupport housing, economic
communities, do not scale with those expectations. This creates astructural imbalance over time, where communities must either defer more flexible local revenue options(such as user-based fees, utility-style systems. Specifically, success wouldlook like: Improved alignment between expand and modernize the toolsavailable to local governments by investment, redevelopment, andinfrastructure support in areas that cities to implement and adjust localrevenue tools (such as transportation programs are designed to supportbroad labor market needs, they do not needs. Specifically: Provide greaterlocal flexibility in workforce funding and services.look like: Stronger alignment between Specifically, success would greater flexibility in how workforcefunding can be used, align programs These programs provide accessible,locally delivered training that is critical Models: Some states empower localemployers and communities to co- growth. While Oregon has strong policyframeworks intended to ensure quality permitting processes where possible,while allowing local flexibility to adapt success would look like: Shorter andmore predictable permitting timelines, implementation, and improvecoordination across agencies. Local System – Offers structure andpredictability for long-term development, through a single, coordinated process.Guaranteed or Target Permitting development, workforce expansion, andinfrastructure investment
investment, draw down reserves, or consider service reductions. For LaGrande, and similar communities, the core challenge is bringing revenues, service models, and locally calibratedfunding mechanisms) that can be revenues, services, and infrastructure,with communities able to maintain increasing flexibility in revenue options,reducing regulatory barriers, and would otherwise struggle to attractprivate investment. It remains one of the utility fees, local option sales taxes, orimpact fees) with greater flexibility. This always align with the specific realities ofrural communities, where employers program design, allowing communitiesto tailor training and credentialing training programs and local jobopportunities, with education and with rural and small-community needs,and reduce barriers that limit local for developing workforce pipelines inskilled trades, healthcare, and technical design training programs witheducation providers, ensuring that and accountability, the cumulative effectof regulatory complexity, permitting timelines and procedures based oncommunity scale and capacity. Improve allowing businesses to plan and investwith confidence. Improved coordination Governments: Must implement efficient,transparent permitting processes and helping guide responsible growth. StateInfrastructure Funding Programs: Timelines: Clear expectations for reviewand approval timelines, increasing simultaneously. However, without thetools to align these efforts, financially
services, and infrastructure into alignment in a way that supportsresponsible growth without compromising long-term sustainability. The adjusted to reflect actual system useand community conditions; Streamline service levels without relying onreserves or deferring critical aligning statewide expectations (suchas housing and infrastructure goals) most effective mechanisms for aligningeconomic development with enables communities to tailor solutionsbased on actual system use and local often need a smaller number of highlyadaptable, cross-functional workers programs to match local employerdemand, rather than relying solely on workforce partners responding to real-time needs in areas like skilled trades, adaptation and responsiveness. LocalGovernments: Play a key role in fields that are essential to ruralcommunities. Workforce Innovation and curriculum, credentials, and timingalign directly with local job needs. timelines, and limited local flexibility cancreate uncertainty and delay for both coordination between state agenciesand local governments, reducing between state and local processes,reducing delays and redundancy. align local policies with economic andinfrastructure priorities. Business Support the development of essentialsystems that enable business activity. certainty for investors. Greater LocalFlexibility in Regulatory Implementation: and operationally, growth canunintentionally place additional strain
biggest barrier is the lack of flexible, locally adaptable funding and financingtools that allow communities to respond to their unique conditions. pathways for communities to connectgrowth to infrastructure investment, maintenance; implementation of locallytailored funding tools that reflect actual with practical implementation authorityat the local level. Local Governments – infrastructure needs. StateInfrastructure Funding Programs (e.g., conditions. Growth Pays for GrowthModels: States that more clearly link rather than large pipelines tied to asingle industry. At the same time, standardized regional or statewidemodels. Support “earn-and-learn” and healthcare, and public service roles.Improved recruitment and retention, identifying workforce gaps, supportinglocal partnerships, and aligning Opportunity Act (WIOA) Programs –These programs support job training, Expanded Work-Based LearningSystems: States that have scaled businesses and local governments.This is particularly impactful in rural duplication and conflictingrequirements. Provide clearer, more Greater local flexibility in managingdevelopment and fee structures, Community and Developers: Mustengage in the process, provide Regional Economic DevelopmentPartnerships: Help coordinate local and processes based on their scale andAllowing communities to tailor on the very systems that support it. Akey opportunity for the State is to move
Current constraints include: Limited authority to implement or adjust localrevenue mechanisms in a timely and proportional way; Heavy reliance on allowing cities to ensure that newdevelopment contributes proportionally system use and support long-termsustainability; clear, transparent Must lead in applying these toolsresponsibly by engaging their water, wastewater, and transportationgrants and loans): These programs are development to infrastructure capacity,through impact fees, system communities like La Grande areworking to support economic growth, work-based training pathways(apprenticeships, internships, and on- particularly for critical positions such aspolice, fire, public works, and technical workforce strategies with housing,infrastructure, and community career pathways, and workforceservices, helping connect individuals to apprenticeships, internships, and “earn-and-learn” models across both private communities, where capacity is limitedand even small delays can significantly predictable timelines and expectationsfor permitting and approvals, giving aligned with community needs.Stronger connection between business feedback, and partner with localgovernments to identify practical regional efforts to support businessgrowth. Permit Streamlining Efforts capacity. Integrated EconomicDevelopment and Infrastructure toward a more integrated approach thatrecognizes the connection between:
traditional funding sources that do not keep pace with rising costs;Regulatory and structural barriers that make it difficult to connect growth to the systems it relies on; Modernizeand expand tools like urban renewal, performance measures that allow bothelected officials and the public to communities, aligning resources withpriorities, and implementing essential for helping smallercommunities address large-scale development charges, or negotiatedagreements, help ensure that new housing development, and servicedelivery, but face constraints in the-job training) that are scalable forsmall employers and public sector fields, reducing vacancies and turnover.Expanded use of work-based learning development efforts. Education andTraining Providers (K–12, community employment opportunities andproviding flexibility for local workforce and public sectors have created moreaccessible and effective pathways into affect project viability. At the same time,cities are expected to support economic businesses greater confidence toinvest. Expand local authority to activity and infrastructure investment,ensuring growth contributes to long- improvements. Regional and EconomicDevelopment Organizations: Help (where implemented): Any efforts tosimplify and coordinate permitting Planning – Aligning growth strategieswith infrastructure investment to support Economic development, Workforceavailability, Housing capacity,
directly to the infrastructure and service capacity required to support it; Agap between state-level expectations (housing, growth, infrastructure service districts, and infrastructurefinancing programs to better support understand the condition of servicesand infrastructure in real time; stronger transparent, performance-baseddecision-making frameworks. Regional capital needs that cannot be fundedthrough local resources alone. growth contributes proportionally to theservices it relies on. Regional attracting, developing, and retaining theworkforce needed to sustain that roles, including police, fire, publicworks, and healthcare. Integrate models, such as apprenticeships andon-the-job training, that create clear colleges, workforce boards): Must workclosely with local employers to ensure boards. Registered Apprenticeship andWork-Based Learning Programs: the workforce, especially for youngerworkers and career changers. Rural development and growth, but often lackthe tools and flexibility needed to implement and adjust fee structures ina way that transparently connects term sustainability. Increased businessconfidence and local investment, coordinate efforts, support projectdevelopment, and bridge gaps between processes are highly valuable andshould be expanded. sustainable expansion. SimplifiedRegulatory Frameworks for Smaller Infrastructure and service delivery, andLocal financial sustainability.
delivery) and the local tools available to implement them. Additionally,smaller communities often lack the capacity to fully leverage complex smaller and rural communities; Reduceadministrative and regulatory barriers connection between growth andinfrastructure capacity, ensuring that and Economic Development Partners,play a role in supporting growth Transportation Funding Programs:State-supported funding for local Infrastructure Financing and CostSharing: Multi-jurisdictional growth.a system that aligns education, training, The core challenge is creating workforce development with housingand infrastructure planning, recognizing pathways into local careers. Betterintegration of workforce, housing, and training programs reflect real-time labormarket needs and offer flexible, These programs create practical, earn-and-learn pathways into high-demand Workforce Incentive Programs:Targeted incentives such as student respond quickly and predictably. Thecore challenge is creating a business business activity to infrastructure andservice impacts. Support capacity- particularly in smaller and ruralcommunities. At a broader level, state programs and local needs.Community Members: Play a role in Communities: Reducing complexitywhere appropriate to reflect lower-risk, Additionally, solutions should bedesigned with scale and capacity in
funding programs or navigate layered regulatory requirements, whichfurther limits their ability to act proactively. Addressing these challenges that limit timely local decision-making,while maintaining appropriate development contributes to the systemsit depends on; reduced reliance on strategies that are aligned withinfrastructure capacity and long-term streets and roads is vital, particularly forcommunities with limited tax bases and partnerships and regional fundingmodels help distribute the cost of major and workforce development with localeconomic conditions, while also that workforce availability is directly tiedto livability, affordability, and community community development efforts, makingit easier for individuals and families to accessible pathways into careers.Employers (public and private): Are careers and are especially valuable forcommunities where traditional loan assistance, relocation support,and housing-linked workforce climate that is predictable, efficient, andlocally adaptable, while also ensuring building for smaller communities,including technical assistance and success would mean Oregon’sbusiness climate supports both shaping policies that balance growth,quality of life, and long-term smaller-scale developmentenvironments. mind. Smaller and rural communitiesoperate with limited staffing and
requires a framework that expands local flexibility, aligns incentivesbetween growth and infrastructure investment, and supports communities accountability and transparency;Provide technical and implementation short-term or reactive solutions,replaced by phased, strategic decision- community sustainability. Private Sectorand Development Community, must be significant maintenance backlogs.Economic Development Programs infrastructure across benefitingcommunities, rather than placing the supporting long-term communitysustainability. The biggest barrier is the capacity. Expand incentives and supportfor workforce attraction and retention in live and work in the community.Increased local capacity to implement essential partners in defining workforceneeds, participating in training education pathways may not fully alignwith local job opportunities. Business programs help smaller communitiesattract and retain talent in critical roles. communities can maintain the revenuebase needed to support infrastructure staffing support to manage permittingand development processes efficiently. economic growth and the long-termfinancial health of its communities. sustainability. resources, and policies that work inlarger metropolitan areas do not always
in building long-term financial sustainability rather than relying on short-term solutions. support to help smaller communitieseffectively deploy these tools. At a making frameworks. At a broader level,success would mean communities engaged as partners in ensuring thatgrowth contributes proportionally to the through Business Oregon: Theseprograms support job creation, burden on a single city. StreamlinedGrant and Financing Programs: Some lack of flexibility and local alignmentwithin workforce systems, combined rural communities, including relocationassistance, student loan support, or workforce solutions, with communitiesable to access and effectively use programs, and expanding work-basedlearning opportunities such as Oregon Workforce and EconomicDevelopment Programs: These Integrated Workforce, Housing, andEconomic Development Planning: and services. The biggest barrier is thelack of predictability and coordination Encourage integrated planningbetween economic development, translate effectively without adaptation.Finally, predictability, flexibility, and
broader level, the solution is to create asystem where communities are have the tools, flexibility, and capacity tomake informed decisions that protect infrastructure and services it relies on.Community Members, are essential business retention, and communitydevelopment, helping local economies states have simplified applicationprocesses and consolidated funding with capacity and scale limitations insmaller communities. Key friction targeted incentives for critical serviceroles. Strengthen partnerships between available programs without beingconstrained by administrative apprenticeships and internships.Regional and Workforce Development programs support business growth andjob creation, helping strengthen local Some states more intentionally alignworkforce strategies with housing across regulatory, permitting, andfunding systems. Key friction points infrastructure, and land use, ensuringthat growth is supported by adequate transparency are essential.Communities are best positioned to
empowered to bring revenues,services, and infrastructure into service reliability while supportingresponsible economic growth. participants in shaping priorities,understanding tradeoffs, and grow in a sustainable way. Land UsePlanning Framework: Oregon’s land programs, making it easier for smallercommunities with limited staff capacity points include: Mismatch betweentraining programs and local job local governments, employers, andeducation providers, ensuring that complexity. At a broader level, successwould mean that workforce systems are Organizations: Help coordinate efforts,provide technical support, and bridge economies and expand employmentopportunities. State Support for Sector availability and infrastructure capacity,recognizing that workforce challenges include: Lengthy and complexpermitting processes that can delay systems and services. At a broaderlevel, the goal is to create a system make good decisions when they have:Clear expectations, locally adaptable
Richard Wagner 98257-1195 Both Water Wise LLC Private Business and Consulting 1 - 20 people Business climate Reliable / stable public funding for infrastructure improvements. School alignment, rather than beingconstrained to reactive or one-size-fits-Clear / forward thinking legislation that Appropriate / consistent tiered water supporting long-term solutions thatbalance service expectations withImproved monitoring and reporting to use system provides importantstructure for managing growth andCredits to water bills for effective to access and deploy funding efficiently.Performance-Based Budgeting andSimilar restrictions as California, but No NA NA markets: Programs are often designedfor larger or more specialized laborNA training programs are informed by real-time local needs and can adapt asNA no longer operating separately fromlocal realities, but are instead alignedNA gaps between state programs and localimplementation. Community MembersNA Partnerships and Regional WorkforceBoards: These partnerships help alignNA cannot be solved in isolation. Simplifiedand Consolidated Workforce Systems:NA NA NA projects and increase costs, particularlyfor smaller-scale developments;NA where communities can align businessgrowth with infrastructure capacity andNA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA tools, and the ability to engage theirresidents in meaningful, informedUC Davis and State of California have NA
ProfessionalServices for waterconservation districts, parks departments and similar public institutions need a stableeconomy to derive a reliable tax base from. That tax base coupled with provides reasonable safeguards andcost on use of available water sources rates. Rebate plans which are easy tounderstand and apply for. Efficient and determine if installations are operatedand maintained in a manner such that implementation of water conservationtools on irrigation systems. many lessons to be learned andimprove upon. gone a long way down the waterconservation path. Adopting / copying
Enterprisewith reasonable regulations on water resources drive demand and ability to payfor, my firm's expertise which helps these agencies incorporate technology in light of climate change and increaseof population. Continuing or enacting consistent enforcement / evaluation /monitoring of systems once installed. water stewardship benefit is achieved.The sticking point is not make it so some of their work seems useful -collaborate, don't reinvent wheel. An
sizecommercial and be good steward's of water resources. The unpredictable future of ournation is making state and local economies shaky enough that investment water rebate programs for efficientirrigation. onerous that it becomes a part of theaffordability problem. Governmental example is the WUCOLS handbook ofplant water use and other work done at
irrigationsystems in my services is put on the shelf. regulation has driven affordability coststoo high. Finding balance difficult. I UC Davis.https://wucols.ucdavis.edu/plant-search-
don't envy you this job. Thanks fortrying. Also public education and databasevery helpful to this field as the OSU extension has been
professional education such thatlandscape architects / A&E horticultural world in Oregon is a largeindustry. The Agrimet weather station
professionals / site managers see thevalue in water conservation. network is a great resource throughoutthe west. Another asset to maintain
and share.
Peg williams 97830 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate The governor New governor New Governor who doesn't buywaterfalls. The people Absolutely nothing Fair practices Yes NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop throwing money away on thingsOregon doesn't need. NA
Anne Trudeau 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Deregulation is not a tool for growth. It is a tool for environmentaldestruction. Incentives are not a tool for growth. They are tax breaks for the In March 2026 the Oregon Legislaturepassed SB 1507A—a bill that will limit Taxing billionaires so that we can fullyfunding health care and education All of the above. Oregon Health Plan, Tax the rich:https://mynorthwest.com/mynorthwest- Yes Business climate NA For more than four decades, thedominant economic narrative has been Tax the rich Fair corporate taxes. Fully funded basicneeds for every Oregonian. Legislature, Local governments SB1507A Proposed billionaires tax in California.https://www.latimes.com/california/story/ Yes Workforce We need to continue to supporteducation and jobs in healthcare and Stop any support for ICE or the defenseindustry. Put money towards jobs and Tax the Rich. No one in Oregon goeshungry, gets evicted, worries about All of the above. Oregon Health Plan, Oregon MinimumWage with immediate increases. https://www.seattle.gov/laborstandards/ordinances/minimum-wage No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA How are women workers representedon the Prosperity Council? How are NA
rich that gut programs for the rest of us. Since the 1980's, the dominanteconomic narrative has been that if we cut taxes on the rich and the tax giveaways to corporationscreated by Congress in 2025. We need (from pre-school through college). Nofood insecurity in Oregon. Increased politics/tax-amazon-microsoft/4167380Provide guaranteed Income: that if we cut taxes on the rich andcorporations, they will invest in our state 2026-03-19/californias-proposed-billionaire-tax-gains-majority-support-in- service industry that mostly employwomen and immigrant people. This training in the service industry.Preschool for All so that parents can go paying the rent or healthcare bills. immigrant workers represented on theProsperity Council? We must have an
corporations, they will invest in our state and prosperity will follow. But thereality is that trickle-down economics has led to vast inequality and more legislation like this, not less. funding of free education includingskilled trades apprenticeships and https://lowincomerelief.com/guaranteed-income-programs/ Multnomah County and prosperity will follow. But the realityis that trickle-down economics has led new-poll-with-partisan-split-on-voter-id includes jobs caring for our mostvulnerable people - childcare, to work and not pay huge childcare bills.Preschool for All also supports economy that works for all people, notjust billionaires.
widespread economic insecurity. other Increased regulation of pollutingbusinesses. Guaranteed living wage for Preschool for Allhttps://multco.us/programs/preschool- to vast inequality and widespreadeconomic insecurity. Most billionaires' education, social service, healthcareand eldercare. We need to support the childcare providers.
ALL workers. Guaranteed income foreveryone. all Oregon Senate Bill 1507 -https://www.ocpp.org/2026/02/04/sb- income has never been taxed.https://americansfortaxfairness.org/billio people who provide food for us all. Weneed to stop any attacks on immigrant
1507-protect/ Restore pandemic erafood assistance naires-7-trillion/ workers including the denial of CCBlicences. AI profiteers do not care about
https://www.ocpp.org/2025/11/24/hunger-congress-slashed-food-assistance/ the essential work of caregivers, mostof whom are women. The defense
industry dominates our economy whiledestroying the environment and
murdering people all over the world.The immigration detention industry
profits from racism and hate and illegalimprisonment.
Timothy Murphy 97132 Organization/Business Dental equipment, furniture,components manufacturer Private Metals andMachinery EngineeringDesign, 101-500 people Business climate We need to stop thinking of more ways to tax businesses. Oregon needsto consider more ways to provide meaningful incentives to stay and grow Stop trying to further tax businesses.Provide meaningful economic Healthy growing business that issupported by state and local policy. legislature and local governments Enterprise Zones, Opportunity Zones Job Tax Credits, FastTrackInfrastructure Program, FastTrack No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA There is insufficient amount of lightindustrial land/realestate available for NA
Assembly,Testing, business in Oregon beyond 2-3 year tax relief efforts on business growth. development incentives that compare tosome of the most aggressive states Stop treating capitalism as an enemy.Be more customer service oriented. Economic Development Fund, BonusIncentives for Distressed or At‑Risk manufacturing growth in YamhillCounty. Need faster and less political
Shipping trying to recruit business (Carolinas,Tennessee, Florida, etc.) Counties way to pull distressed farmland into M2zoned use.
Roger Kofler 97267 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate I am against compromising our environmental and climate changeregulations in order to attract businesses to Oregon. NA NA NA NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
Keith Moree 97217 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce Fixing the state’s public K-12 education system Implementing consistent statewidestandards for reading education based Improving math and reading outcomesat all levels of the educational system. All levels of government need to worktogether to make this happen. Cannot I like the emphasis on preschool for alland access to high quality, affordable I like aspects of what the southernstates have been doing with reading Yes Workforce NA The state needs to find a way to supportthe construction of high quality but Blue ribbon commission (all levels ofgovernment, university level architects More people living in stable andconsistent housing instead of on the Again, Oregon has urgent problemsthat do not seem to get the level of Cooperative affordable housinginitiatives involving local government, Houston, Texas has some interestingand successful housing initiatives No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
on outcomes. This should be done viaa Marshall Plan type commission that be dictated from top down, or bottomup. Must be a broad public initiative, childcare to help all families get a goodstart for their children. education, including outcome basedinitiatives, use of more standardized, affordable housing, perhaps via a blueribbon commission that looks at best and planners, community leaders,business representatives, etc) to street; less housing insecurity forfamilies with young children, seniors. attention across all levels of society thatthey need to really be addressed. business, and local faith communities.Opal Apartments in Multnomah
includes all stakeholders. Local inputis important, but should not be an with strong public relations andcommunity education components. evidence based reading curricula. practices both nationally andinternationally. Building more housing, identify what is being used successfullyaround the state, country, globe to county/Portland is one.
excuse for consistently poor outcomes.Standards should reflect global norms especially affordable housing, is theonly real way to bring down housing support fair and affordable housinginitiatives.
for advanced industrial societies. costs in Oregon, which would havesecondary benefits in many ways.
Bernadette Rodgers 97239-2053 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce wellbeing of employees-- living wages, accessible education, universalhealthcare, preschool for all, affordable housing, healthy environment-- Universal healthcare and pre-K alonewould make huge strides in improving Universal healthcare, accessible highered, higher high school graduation rates, Everyone! But the legislature and localgovernments have the biggest role to I would like to see Oregon meet itsambitious climate goals, and follow- universal pre-K, universal health care,universal income No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
these are the issues that Oregon should focus on, and these are the thingsthat will draw a quality workforce to Oregon. quality of life for present and futuregenerations. Greater taxation on the pre-K for all, less poverty andhomelessness-- healthy children, play to align taxation and spending withthe right priorities, to incentivize healthy through on poverty reduction targets.
very wealthy and wealthy corporations isneeded to fund the societal healthy ecosystems, healthy food,happy people! growth and discourage (or outlaw)harmful business behavior.
improvements we need, and reducewealth inequality. We need wealth
redistribution!
Sarah Marble 97210 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Providing more transportation options for the workforce Expand bus and train service and bikeand walking routes People would be able to get to work,school, medical care, errands without Legislature and local governments NA NA Yes Business climate NA Over prioritizing business over workersand families More regulation and enforcement of fairemployment practices, more taxation Businesses that depend on exploitingworkers and the environments have left Legislature, local governments NA NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop giving my tax dollars to programsthat benefit the wealthy and harm the NA
having to have a car Oregon and local businesses withsustainable and human focus environment and prioritize the peopleand the environment
Natalie Legras 97213 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth 1. Transportation: it’s too hard to get to businesses (employees and Make it safe and quick to get to work Transit, biking, or walking should take Governor and legislature need to stop Trimet and local transit agencies, safe Look at the Netherlands and Denmark Yes Tools for growth Housing If people can’t afford to live here, they Increase density across the state even business models are thriving4 floors and corner stores in Portland Legislature can require simplification of RIP 1,2,3. Recent housing bills in State bank, social housing, construction No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop giving tax breaks to data centers NA
customer) and cars are not the best solution. and businesses. Create anenvironment where parents don’t need me to 90% of the places I need to gowithin 30 minutes—including to work. failing to fund transit/transportation overand over. routes to school, Amtrak, and protectedbike infra. as models. Look at Hoboken NJ. can’t afford to spend here. more. Simplify zoning codes to allowany non-noxious use anywhere in cities and even small cities likeCorvallis/albany. codes. Local cities/counties cansimplify code requirements and stop Oregon like inclusionary zoning andstate code requirements to increase development fund, especially for smalldevelopers and lending structure for that steal our electricity, water, andprovide no jobs or benefits to Oregon.
to chauffeur kids around 24/7 so theycan go to a happy hour sometimes and within simple guidelines. “zoning” so much. density.Portland. Inner eastside for all in Cohousing. Stop it.
spend money.
Barton Van Syoc 97527 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Tools for growth Natural gas futures Open the door to growth and expansion. Reduced restrictions for developinginfrastructure. Greater opportunities for Everyone! Nothing. Conservative leadership Yes NA Voter ID Do away with the vote by mail. Require a “Real ID” to vote in person. Only legal citizens voting . Everyone Nothing Florida No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA That’s it. NA
Craig Edwards 97003 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Business climate We need lower taxes and less budget spending. Please live and work within your budget. exporting.No illegal immigrants living in Oregon. State, local and county. State park system. Please emulate Florida and Texas. No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Stop being a "sanctuary state". Follow NA
spend more than the state takes in.Trim programs and costs. DO NOT Federal laws. No one is above the law,especially Federal laws.
Stop spending oyr money on Illegalimmigrants.
Eva M. Arechiga de Valverde 97071 Organization/Business Valgreen Painting, LLC. Private Business andProfessional Construction(NAICS 1 - 20 people Business climate One of the biggest challenges I would like the Prosperity Council toaddress is the administrative and compliance burden placed on small I would recommend implementinggreater standardization and consistency Applicants would experience clearcommunication, standardized This would require action from stateagencies and local governments. Programs such as the COBIDcertification (MBE/WBE/ESB/DBE), and None No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA None NA
Services 238320) subcontractors working on public projects.promote inclusion (such as COBID certification and public contracting While programs intended to in the certification evaluation process,including clear guidelines and criteria evaluations, and reduced duplication,allowing them to focus more on prevailing wage laws (BOLI PWR)
opportunities) are valuable, and the online application process is generallyclear and accessible, there is an opportunity to improve the evaluation applied uniformly across allCertification Specialists. Additionally, growing their businesses rather thanmanaging administrative complexity.
process. At times, variations in experience and familiarity amongCertification Specialists with the realities of small, disadvantaged, and providing ongoing training focused onunderstanding small, disadvantaged,
minority-owned businesses can lead to misunderstandings, which mayunintentionally complicate the process and create a less supportive and minority-owned businesses wouldhelp ensure a more consistent, fair, and
experience than intended. supportive evaluation experience.
Michaela McCormick 97211 Myself NA NA NA NA NA Workforce A well trained and well paid work force. Universal, free, high-quality preschoolis an economic silver bullet — it State and local funding for freeuniversal preschool. State legislature, local governments,colleges and universities. The program we already have here is anational model for how it could and NA Yes Tools for growth NA Education and workforce training andaffordable housing.. The best tools for growth are educationand apprenticeships and affordable State and local funding for universal,free, high-quality preschool. It's an State legislature, local governments,schools and universities. The pre-school program we alreadyhave here is a national model for how it NA No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The rapidly increasing number of datacenters in Oregon, developed by NA
delivers a 3-to-1 return on investmentand raises family incomes by about should be done. Expanding it whilekeeping the quality high will help our housing. economic silver bullet — it delivers a 3-to-1 return on investment and raises could and should be done. Expanding itwhile keeping the quality high will help wealthy corporations and otherinvestors that are being granted huge
22% on average. region remain competitive when itcomes to attracting and retaining family incomes by about 22% onaverage. our region remain competitive when itcomes to attracting and retaining tax breaks by government bodies andlocal communities, are an
workers and their young families. workers and their young families. unconscionable drain on otherwiseavailable tax revenues that should go to
pre-schools, apprenticeship programs,and our increasingly poorly funded
public schools.
Thor Hinckley 97215-4180 Both Third Act Oregon Non-profit NA NA 500-1000 people Business climate We would like to see the Council address the potential businessopportunities arising from climate change, across the various business To forward cast to a changed climate inOregon and the business opportunties A realignment of government supportfor the emergence of businesses in A revisionsing of the business planninglandscape to include the impacts HB 2021 along with other clean energypolicies. An examination of the potential benefitsfrom a carbon surcharge such as that in No NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
sectors currently operating in Oregon that arise from those climate changes(i.e. hotter and dryer conditions in Oregon that help local economiesadapt to the new opportunites arising arising from a changing climate whichwill significantly impact, agriculture, the state of Washington.
Summer and wetter in the winter andspring) due to climate change. tourism and land management.
