June 1, 2026
sent via email: Prosperity.Roadmap@oregon.gov, tim.knopp@oregon.gov
Governor’s Prosperity Council
Tim Knopp, Chief Prosperity Officer
Office of Governor Tina Kotek, State of Oregon
900 Court Street, Suite 254
Salem, Oregon 97301
RE: Recommendations for development of statewide economic strategy by the Prosperity
Council
Dear Co-Chair James, Co-Chair Robinhold, Prosperity Council members, and Mr. Knopp:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments as the Prosperity Council develops its
recommendations to inform approaches to achieve goals outlined in the Prosperity Roadmap.
The Wild Salmon Center (WSC) works to promote the conservation and sustainable use of wild
salmon ecosystems across the Pacific Rim. We identify science-based solutions to sustain wild
fish and the human communities and livelihoods that depend on them.
The Roadmap’s goals prioritize accelerating Oregon’s economic growth, creating more living
wage jobs today, and retaining and growing Oregon businesses. The Roadmap highlights
Oregon’s “exceptional quality of life, marked by clean air, abundant fresh water, and a stunning
natural environment” that make Oregon a desirable place to live. Our iconic rivers and
landscapes draw people and businesses to the state and motivates people to stay.
The natural values of Oregon’s lands and waters must be protected, for the health of all
Oregonians and the resilience of the businesses and communities that depend upon clean air and
water. The statewide economic strategy in development by the Prosperity Council must prioritize
the protection of natural resources as integral to a healthy Oregon and include strategies to
ensure cold clean water in Oregon’s rivers, thriving populations of wild fish, healthy forests, and
a growing restoration economy. All communities benefit from healthy ecosystems. Growth and
prosperity must be consistent with the protection of vital ecosystem services, which provide the
foundation for Oregon quality of life. These include healthy forests, cold clean water, tourism
and recreation, and restoration of habitat for fish and wildlife.
1. Healthy forests and abundant supplies of cold clean water support sustainable
economies and thriving communities across the state of Oregon.
Clean water and healthy forests that support fish and wildlife are integral to the livability
and welfare of Oregon communities. Abundant supplies of cold, clean water support
Oregon’s economy through irrigated agriculture, industrial uses, drinking water for
communities, recreation, tourism, and commercial fishing. In 2021, commercial fisheries
i
in Oregon generated $642 million alone. Healthy watersheds provide habitat for fish and
PO Box 10026, Portland, Oregon 97296 | 503.222.1804 | wildsalmoncenter.org
