1 . STAT E W I D E E C O N O M I C D E V E L O P M E NT ST R AT E GY & ST R U C T U R A L R E F O R M
leaders and the Governor and modeled on best practices for statewide economic development organizations.
The Governor must ensure effective personnel and board members lead the transformation and the agency.
The transition will consolidate and integrate Business Oregon’s economic and community development functions
with workforce, energy, innovation, research, and other key functions into the new Commerce Authority. It should
improve program delivery, service standards, response times, and accessibility for small and medium-sized
businesses, as well as large strategic employers. The Authority should establish measurable statewide economic
development goals and maintain a public-facing dashboard tracking key metrics such as business growth, job
creation, project timelines, regional investment, customer response times, and economic competitiveness
outcomes to improve transparency and accountability. Given the scale and complexity of this transition,
the Legislature should authorize planning and implementation resources in the next biennium to begin the
organizational development work necessary to establish a Commerce Authority and to ensure that the work of
the Prosperity Council continues.
BEST PRACTICES
The Arizona Commerce Authority and North Carolina Department of Commerce offer examples of integrated
economic development governance models. Arizona’s public-private authority structure emphasizes executive
leadership, private-sector participation, and organizational agility. North Carolina complements a similar
partnership-oriented approach with responsibilities spanning community development, rural economic
development, workforce strategy, and energy policy, creating a more comprehensive framework for
statewide competitiveness.
Additional Recommendations
Complete and implement a statewide economic development strategy with measurable job and income
growth goals, a focus on business retention, expansion and attraction, targeted support for small businesses, a
sophisticated approach to target sectors and generative artificial intelligence. Align with workforce development,
infrastructure, and innovation priorities. Engage small and medium-sized businesses, entrepreneurs, and rural
communities in developing the strategy and identifying target industries.
Prioritize catalytic public-private partnerships that can serve as the foundation for emerging innovation
districts, unlocking long-term economic growth and traded-sector employment through state investments on the
order of $10 million per project (e.g. Confluence Innovation Campus in Portland, the Southern Willamette Valley
Innovation Corridor, and industrial site development in Eastern Oregon). These investments should align with
programs that accelerate innovation and commercialization partnerships statewide.
Establish a Governor-directed economic development concierge function through the Regional
Solutions Program and Regional Development Officers, with clear expectations that state agencies actively
support priority projects, coordinate across jurisdictions, resolve barriers, and facilitate timeline solutions that
advance local and regional economic development priorities. This effort should ensure that projects of strategic
importance receive visible executive action and coordinated state support from initial engagement through
project completion.
- 15 -
OREGON PROSPERITY COUNCIL | RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OREGON’S LONG-TERM COMPETITIVENESS AND PROSPERITY | JUNE 2026
