MEMORANDUM
Industrial Land Readiness Workgroup at Westside Economic Alliance
Date: February 11, 2026
WEA is pleased to bring you a summary memo resulting from months of workgroup discussion and
collaboration with Metro staff. This memo is intended to be a starting point for a collaborative
conversation where private sector partners can work with Metro to support a bright economic future
for our region.
BACKGROUND
Metro is required to produce an updated Urban Growth Report (UGR) every six years as part of the
growth management program. The UGR is used as the basis for urban growth boundary (UGB)
expansion decisions. Throughout the 2024 UGR review process, participants raised concerns through
various committees and Metro Council meetings about Metro’s buildable lands methodology specific to
counting industrial lands.
Metro’s current methodology is not intended to specifically identify market-based industrial land needs
for the region. The Buildable Land Inventory requires Metro to identify available lands that are currently
zoned for industrial use but is not required to consider key site criteria factors based on market realities
such as slope, utility infrastructure availability, and proximity to major highways.
While the UGR found that sufficient industrial lands for the next 20 years “exist” in the UGB, much of the
land identified is not suitable to meet industrial development market demand due to site size, slope and
other site constraints.
The most recent UGR was adopted in 2024 and used as the basis for the Sherwood West UGB
expansion. In order to approve the City of Sherwood’s UGB expansion request that included industrial
lands, Metro staff used a targeted industry approach which showed that despite the substantial amount
of industrial zoned land inside the UGB, this expansion was justified as none of those sites could meet
the site needs of certain sectors.
In response to the UGR process and the concerns raised, members of MTAC asked MPAC and Metro
Council to convene an Industrial Land Readiness Workgroup of industry experts to look more closely at
Metro’s buildable lands methodology. This memo is the result of that convening, providing background
on the workgroup’s discussions, goals and membership, along with recommended actions for Metro
Council to consider.
WORKGROUP CONVENING
The Industrial Land Readiness Workgroup convened from February to September 2025. The
workgroup’s initial objective was to review the methodology used by Metro to count buildable
employment industrial lands and present specific recommendations to better align the count of
1
Industrial Land Readiness Workshop | Memorandum of Recommendations | February 11, 2026
www.WestsideAlliance.org
